Walker Boh's Boss Guide to:
     Final Fantasy Legend
Author: Walker Boh
Real Name: Bryan Peterson
E-mail: b-peterson@earthlink.net
Final Fantasy Legend Technical Data:
Name of Game: Final Fantasy Legend
Platform: Gameboy
Medium: Cartridge
Number of Players: 1
Genre: RPG
Save Ram: Yes
Number of Save Slots: 1
What's in This FAQ?
Author's Note
Legal Stuff
A.	P-Frog
B.	B. King Sword
C.	C. Steward
D.	D. Gen-Bu
E.	E. Sei-Ryu
F.	F. Byak-ko
G.	G. Machine
H.	H. Su-Zaku
I. I. Ashura
II. J. Gen-Bu2
K.	Sei-ryu2
L.	L. Byak-ko2
M.	M. Su-Zaku2
N.	N. Creator
O.	Author's Note: This isn't a walkthrough but a guide to each of the
bosses of the game. It'll go along with my FAQ, so if you're just
having trouble with the bosses you know where to look if you don't
have time to spend looking through a walkthrough.
     Legal stuff
I.   This document is copyright 2000/2003 by Walker Boh-Ohmsford, and may only
be used for nonprofitable purposes. Don't try anything smart or you'll be
bbusted! There are laws after all, and no one's above them.
     Intro
II.   	I also have a walkthrough which tells how to beat the bosses, but
if you just want info on the bosses and not the area you're in
you don't have to keep looking through the FAQ. This just has
info on the bosses. HP info comes from Robert Paulson's guide fore.
(Rpaulson@Mtlakes.csnet.net is his E-mail Address.
     Boss guide
     Name: P-Frog HP: 82
  This guy's a snap! Whatever you do, don't attack him with a
handheld weapon such as a sword or hammer. If you do you'll be
poisoned. Use bows, or fire and ice magic, which both cause
around 70 damage, (quite a lot really.) He should be gone in an
instant.
     Name: King Sword HP: 114
  This guy can be a little tough. If you bought the Sleep spell
from the Town of Hero, use it to make this fight a heck of a lot easier. This
guy deals heavy damage! You may have to use Sleep
several times, (unless of course you also have fire, which works
well.) He should die in a short time.
     Name: Steward HP: ???
  It doesn't matter, since by now you'll have the King Sword
equipped. One hit with that and he's gone!
     Name: Gen-Bu hp: 150
  This guy's quite easy. Use fire a few times and he's gone. He can defend
himself using Shell, and he has a Gas attack, so be a little careful, as Gas
affects all party members. He also has a Tusk attack, and if you're not well-
equipped that can do major damage. I know, I've made that mistake a few times.
     Name: Sei-Ryu hp: 633
  	This guy's a bit tough. Use your best attacks. I can't
remember if fog works well. Try it and see. If I remember
correctly Elec works decently as well. Be careful though, since
this dragon uses powerful attacks such as Bite and Strict, and
both do some major damage!
     Name: Byak-Ko HP: 1000
  This guy's easy. If you have a saw or creature with the SAW
ability like a mosquito, use that to bring this battle to a
speedy conclusion. Note: It may take several tries for the SAW to
connect, but it's fatal when it does.
      Name: Machine HP: 1500-2000
  This guy does some heavy damage, so bring along some cures. Use
fire a lot, it'll make life a lot easier.
     Name: Su-Zaku HP: 1500-2000
  An easy fight. If you have the Hyper cannon, use it one time and he'll be
gone. If not, just hit him with your most powerful attacks to do him in.
     Name: Ashura HP: 3000
  This one's brutal! He deals a lot of damage! Make sure you at least
have the Glass Sword and possibly 'Xcalibr sword also. I think Flare
works also, but I can't remember. Try it. Anyway, try to bring along as many
revives and X-Potions as you can. You'll need them!
     Name: Gen-Bu2 HP: 1500-2500, quite a range there!
  This guy's easy. Just whack him with your best stuff and you've got him.
     Name: Sei-Ryu2 HP: about 2500
  This guy is easy. Once again just show no mercy!
     Name: Byak-Ko2 HP: 2500
  Hopefully you bought yourself a whole bunch of Hyper cannons. Those
rule! One shot and he's gone. If not though, just hit him with the strongest
stuff you have.
     Name: Su-Zaku2 HP: 2500-3000
  Here's where Hyper cannons come in handy. One shot is all it takes. If not,
just thrash him with your best attacks and watch your HP. I always recommend
Hyper Cannons because this guy's Tornado attack does
massive damage to all characters. Note: I don't know if this works
in the second fight with Su-Zaku, but in the first fight you can
turn him to stone after doing some damage to him.
     Name: Creator HP: 3000-6000
  The final and easiest boss of the game. Here's my strategy for
beating him. Have one character equipped with the Masamune sword, and
another equipped with the Glass sword, (hopefully it's still got
some uses left.) Have your other two characters equipped with a few
missiles. Note: I recommend a party of two humans and two mutants.
You need that party if you're to use my strategy. Be careful though,
Creator does have one unnamed attack which is almost guaranteed to
take out a party member, but just keep on him and he'll die. After
the battle, you've won the game! Note: I recently received a hint from Alcahest
(Alcahest@club-internet.fr, that you can also use the Saw to defeat the
Creator. Personally I wouldn't try it, as the Saw has a regretable tendency to
miss most of the time, but it is something to consider. I also learned (alas I
can't remember the name of the fellow who told me about this or his address
would go here), that if you take a Human, raise all his/her stats to 99 and
give him/her a saw, that they will almost never miss with it. The only problem
I have with that idea is that it's way too time-consuming! Thanks for the
hints, guys.
	Also note: If you have anything you would like to add to either my
walkthrough or this guide, feel free to let me know. My E-mail address is
b-peterson@earthlink.net.
