START:

~SIMULATOR BATTLE:
TURN 1: Arthur/Curtis Attack Divner1, Gloria uses Ice1 on Diviner2, Myron
attacks Sprite1.
TURN 2: All Attack Sprite2.

~DHARM CITY:
Walk from Talon Shrine to Dharm City, enter magic shop and get Ice1 for Curtis.
Enter battle simulator until all level 3, buy 2 Leather Armor(females), 2
Leather Shoes(males), 3 Leather Helm(all but Sharon), 7 Belt(all but Gloria),
use Inn before leaving town.

~LEAVING DHARM/NORTH TOWER:
Go to North Tower get Leather Glove and equip to Gloria, get Float Spell, fall
down hole then walk down stars and leave North Tower. Give Float Spell to
Arthur.

~ELAN CITY:
Fly Southwest To Elan, buy 4 Plume and 4 Psi Daggers, Equip 1 each to all party
members, talk to Chronos in southern house to get Past Unit, use Inn on way out
if needed.

~BACK TO TALON SHRINE/WATER HAG BOSS FIGHT:
Fly East to Water Hag boss, fully cure party with Myron before fight, SAVE
before fight to avoid Unexpected Attack. Ideally level 4-5. Arthur/Sharon use
Psi Daggers, Curtis/Gloria use Ice1, Myron Attacks. Try to keep all 4 alive for
EXP bonus post fight. Cure party with Myron before entering Whirlgate inside
Talon Shrine.

~TO THE PAST:
Equip Talon with Past Unit by checking viewer screen. Warp to Past, then fly
southwest to Lae City. Buy max Cure1 Potions and get Flushex Unit. Buy 2 Fire1
Spells, give to Curtis/Gloria. Use remaining GP to buy Silver Armors but save
enough GP to use Inn before leaving. Walk outside Lae City and grind to level 7
for party, using Inn to restore MP when required. By level 7 should have enough
GP for 4 Silver Helm, 4 Bronze Shield and 4 Silver Armor, equip to all party
members. Buy 2 Aero1 Spells, give to Curtis/Gloria. Do not leave Lae City area
until at least level 7 with all aforementioned Spells and Armor, in addition to
9 Cure1 Potions.

~TO SOUTHERN CAVE:
Take encounters on the path to Southern Cave. Fly South around mountains to get
there. Heal/Save before entering cave. Use Maps to navigate direct path to Lara,
skipping treasures. If encountering the Thoth/Jerrit enemy formation, battle
them as you have a chance at getting a Pendant drop. If you get 1 or more, equip
to Gloria/Curtis/Sharon/Arthur in that order of priority and replace the Belt
they currently have equipped. Use Cure1 Potions to heal as needed.

~LARA BOSS FIGHT:
Heal/Save before engaging Lara to avoid Unexpected Attack. Use Psi Daggers with
Arthur/Sharon and Fire1 with Curtis/Gloria. Lara has resistance to Fire but it
does more damage than Ice. All 4 must survive to maximize EXP bonus and
Leveling. Heal/Save after defeating Lara using her Cure1 Spell.

~DOGRA BOSS FIGHT:
This is a difficult battle, use Psi Daggers and Ice1 Spells to take out the
Witches first, do not use Fire1 against Witches as they have resistance to Fire.
Have Lara use Lit1 against Dogra. Try to keep HP high with remaining Cure1
Potions, ideally all 4 party members must survive but 3 is okay. When the
Witches are gone use Fire1 with Curtis/Gloria against Dogra. Heal/Save after
battle and get the Rover unit. Take encounters on the way out of the cave unless
low on MP/HP/Cure1 Potions. Level 8 is suggested for this fight at the very
least.

~BACK TO ELAN CITY:
Use Inn and talk to Granny in southern house to get the Dive Spell. Leave Elan
and go east to coast, then use Dive Spell. Go underwater and move north along
coast and then west to find the underwater city of Muu.

~MUU CITY (PAST):
Go to western part of town to find a soft potion in the right chest, skip the
left chest containing the Ifram seed as it is not required. Sell any extra armor
and then buy as many Pendants, Gold Gloves and Iron Boots as you can in that
order of priority, ideally 4 of each and equip to party, then sell remaining
armor. Equip Pendants in place of Belts. Go to Item Shop and buy at least 1
Elixir, then as many Cure2 Potions as you can, ideally the maximum of 9. Use Inn
if required before leaving.

~RETURN TO PRESENT:
Move east and then south from Muu to return to the Talon Shrine and warp to the
Present. Upon leaving the shrine in the present an auto scene will be triggered
back in Dharm. Use Inn if required before leaving Dharm.

~RETURN TO ELAN CITY (PRESENT):
Fly west to Elan, talk to Cronos to get Tower Key, use Inn if required before
leaving Elan City. Leave and use Float to travel south and east around mountains
to South Tower, Heal/Save before entering Tower.

~SOUTH TOWER:
Get B-jack and air crystal on way to Ashura, taking encounters, equip B-jack on
Arthur as soon as you find it. Use Maps to navigate direct path. Heal/Save
before fighting Ashura to avoid Unexpected Attack.

~ASHURA BOSS FIGHT:
This can also be a difficult battle but usually not as tough as Dogra. Ideally
you want to be at least level 10-11 for this fight. If you have enough GP, you
can route diverge to Muu after Elan to pick up Lit1 spells for Curtis/Gloria,
which can help a lot but is not required. Use B-jack/Psi Dagger and Fire1/Lit1
to take out the Warriors first. Ashura has resistance to Fire, so use Ice1 or
Lit1 if you have it on Curtis/Gloria. Use Cure2 Potions as needed to heal and
try to keep everyone alive to get max EXP for the party after the battle. Pick
up the TNT before leaving if you did not get it on the way up the tower.
Continue to take encounters on the way out as the EXP and GP is going to be
important.

~RETURN TO MUU (PRESENT):
Go north to the coast and use Dive. Return to Muu but be sure to check the
sunken ship to the east of there for the Teargas/Air Crystal first. Use the Inn
as it will most likely be needed when you get to Muu. Buy 2 Lit1 Spells if you
do not already have them for Curtis/Gloria, and buy Cure2 Spells for everyone.
Go to the Armor Shop and buy 4 Dragon Glove, then 3 Silver Shield, prioritizing
the Dragon Gloves first. Sell extra armor after equipping and sell the Psi
Dagger you replaced with the B-jack from Arthur. Then buy as many Gold Helmets
as you can and equip those, selling the Silver Helmets and buying more Gold
Helmets with the remaining GP. Be sure to get the Water Crystal in the building
to the west of the Armor Shop if you do not have it already.

~PLUNDERING SUNKEN SHIPS AND OPTIMIZING ARMOR:
Use maps to plunder the 2 remaining sunken ships taking direct routes to each.
Continue to take encounters as you do. Return to Muu once you have done so and
pick up any remaining Armor that you did not get earlier, IE Gold Helmets and
Gold Boots. Use the Inn to restore your HP/MP. Sell the Thunder Staff you
plundered and the Iron Boots and remaining armor then go to the Item Shop. Buy
max Cure2 Potions and Softs, then use all the remaining GP you have to buy
Elixirs. You are going to need optimal armor and a good supply of healing
potions for Chaos Castle. Avoid the Evil Eye enemies during your level and GP
grinding if possible.

~CASTLE OF CHAOS:
Do NOT enter Chaos Castle until you are at least level 12. This gives you a good
chance and running away from the Dual Mask enemies, which can be a real problem.
Use Maps to get all the boxes on the way to Chaos except the Soft Potion which
you should already have enough of. Take encounters on the way except for the
aforementioned Dual Masks. The Horus/Fiend formation is very good and can drop
Para spells to sell for more GP later. The Horus enemy is weak to your Aero
spells. Equip the Psi Armor to Gloria and the Fire Shield to Curtis.

~CHAOS BOSS BATTLE:
This is widely regarded as one of the most difficult boss battles in the game.
Ideally you want to be level 12-13 for this fight. Make sure to Heal/Save and
equip the 2 TNT and Teargas weapons to Arthur/Sharon before you fight Chaos, and
avoid the Unexpected Attack. Use the Teargas and TNT, then re equip your B-jack
and Psi Dagger in battle once they are gone, and have Curtis/Gloria use Lit1. If
Chaos uses Quake, make sure each character uses Cure2 Potions or Spells
immediately after and keep HP high for this fight. If you lose someone in
battle, use the Elixirs you have to revive them. Try to keep everyone alive to
gain the EXP after the battle. The Teargas/TNT strategy will go a long way in
helping you to win this fight.

~LEAVING CHAOS CASTLE:
Heal/Save after the battle and pick up the Future and Hover units. Continue to
take encounters on the way out except for the Dual Masks. If you are lucky you
might get Para Spells or Dragon Gloves to drop on the way out.

~THE FUTURE AWAITS:
Return to Muu, use the Inn and restock your Elixirs to full. Sell any extra
armor or item drops you got. Fly east to Talon Shrine, warp to the future. Fly
west to Elan City, beware of enemy encounters as they are stronger now in the
future. Go to the Inn in Elan City and talk to Granny in the bed to get the
Morph Spell.

~RETURN TO MUU (FUTURE):
Leave Elan City and go west to the coastline, use Dive and go north to Muu.
First priority is to buy Quake Spells for everyone, then Ice2 Spells for
Curtis/Gloria. Be sure to use the Morph Spell to avoid fighting WaterHags. There
will be random encounters in Muu now so this is a good spot to grind out some
more levels and GP, being close to an Inn. Suggested grind is to level 15, have
everyone use Quake to maximize damage to the entire enemy formations. Next
priority is to buy 4 Speed Helmets from the armor shop, these are very useful
and will be used for a long time, 4 Shades are also recommended before leaving
Muu.

~PLUNDERING SUNKEN SHIPS (FUTURE):
There are 3 more sunken ships to be found in the future, use maps to plot a
direct route to each one, each has 2 boxes within them. Take encounters as you
go, using Quake.

~TO NEW DHARM/VIPER CITY:
Surface, go east to New Dharm, buy elixirs, use inn, get password from Myron
leave and go north to Viper, buy 4 Geta Boots, sell extras found from the sunken
ships. Enter the main base, get items on right, equip the Laser Sword to Sharon,
heal at Dr. Belksi, recruit Dion, get the Rocket, then leave and use Dive on the
east coast, go north to Dr. Pulcers undersea base and get the Radio. Then leave
and go southwest to the Talon Shrine and pier to use the Rocket at the edge of
the pier to Floatland.

~FLOATLAND ARRIVAL:
First Priority Buy 4 Speed Armors, 2 X-Plane Shields for Arthur/Sharon and 3
Earring. Sell extra armor afterward. Use the Inn then go north to the Floatland
Ruins.

~FLOATLAND RUINS:
There are a lot of hidden passages in here, so use maps to take efficient routes
and make sure you do not skip any boxes, continue to take encounters along the
way. Quake is still your best option.

~PATH TO MAITREYA:
Use maps to navigate from the Floatland Ruins to Floatland Mountain, be sure not
to miss the Ice Shield found on the mountain as it is very important later.
Equip it to Gloria. When you reach the Tower, follow the maps to get all the
boxes and be sure to check the top floor before backtracking to the hidden
passage to Maitreya, continue taking encounters to build EXP and GP, Quake
remains the best option. Make sure to get the Exit Spell and give it to Curtis.

~MAITREYA BOSS FIGHT:
Heal/Save before the battle to avoid the Unexpected Attack. Equip the Battle
Armor to Sharon. Take out the Lamias first with Quake Spells and physical
attacks. Use Ice2 and physical attacks on Maitreya, be sure to keep your HP high
and do not hesitate to heal after getting hit with Cyclone. Recommended level is
16-17. Get the X-Plane unit after the fight and use Curtis to exit out. Use the
Radio to contact Dr. Pulcer, then use the Remote to call the Talon and warp to
Pureland.

~PURELAND ARRIVAL:
Use Berth before exiting the Talon, which functions as a Inn, it can be found on
the lower left part of the Talon. Go north to Darius City. Find the Firestar and
Heal spell, then buy 4 Diamond Shields from the armor shop, which are very
important! Buy 2 Fire2 Spells for Curtis/Gloria and buy Cure3 Spells for
everyone, then 2 Dragon Swords for Arthur/Sharon, and the 1 remaining Earring
for whoever did not get it earlier. You should have enough GP for all of this if
you were taking encounters along the way and selling your extra equipment and
items.

~TO EITAR VILLAGE:
Call the Talon using the Remote and fly west to Eitar, there will be a single
tree next to the village to identify it. The Talon will now attack enemy
formations with the Cannon so be sure to take advantage of this and continue to
take encounters. In the village, go to the fenced area on the left and look for
the broken fence, you can pass through this and then go north to get the Catnip
by checking the trees there.

~TO EITAR PRISON:
Call the Talon using the Remote and fly north to the Eitar Prison. Faye is being
held captive here. Once inside, use the Catnip to freeze the cat mummies in
place, you can now push them out of the way. Use maps to navigate and be sure to
get the Wizard Armor and Fur Armor here. Keep taking encounters but consider
running from the Soarx enemies as they are resistant to Quake, which is still
your best option for offensive spells.

~FENRIR BOSS FIGHT:
Heal/Save before Fenrir. The chances of avoiding the Unexpected Attack here are
very low, so you are better off just taking it. The Diamond Shields you bought
earlier will protect you from his Lit2 and Flood attacks. Use physical attacks
and Fire2 spells against Fenrir and keep HP high, in an attempt to keep everyone
alive to get the EXP after the fight. Get the Prison Key after the fight and
proceed down and right to the locked door, makes sure to get the Fur Armor on
the way. On the lower floor push the mummy cat out of the way and rescue Faye,
then use the Exit Spell and leave.

~RETURN TO EITAR VILLAGE/DARIUS:
Use the Remote to call the Talon, use Berth if needed and return to Eitar
Village, get the Dark Crystal and speak with Juba, then return to Darius to take
boat to Knaya.

~KNAYA CITY, THE CENTER OF TRADE:
There are a lot of shops to check in Knaya, but the only one you should check is
the Magic Shop, which is on the far right 3 towers. Buy CureA Spells for
everyone, Lit2 Spells for Curtis/Gloria, and if you have enough GP left, buy the
Weak Spell for Curtis/Gloria. Leave and call the Talon, use Berth if needed,
then fly south and west to Mt. Hasid. Continue taking encounters to level up and
gain more GP. Quake is still the most effective option.

~MOUNT HASID:
Use maps to get the Light Crystal, Cool Bracelet and Missile unit here. Make
sure to Heal/Save on the stairs leading to Guha as you will automatically
encounter him once you step off the stairs. Equip the Ice Shield to Sharon and
the Cool Bracelet to Arthur, they will function as your healers and revive
downed characters for this fight.

~GUHA BOSS FIGHT:
This is another difficult battle. Recommended level is 19-21. Save to avoid the
Unexpected Attack, but it is costly on time as there is dialogue before the
battle. Use Lit2 and physical attacks against Guha, keep HP high and try to
survive to get the EXP at the end of the fight. Guha will use the FireX spell a
lot and you will be healing with CureA Spells and reviving with Elixirs
undoubtedly. If you can try to get in a few physical attacks between healing
needs and hope to land a mighty blow. Get the Durend Sword after the fight and
equip it to Sharon. Sage Buzi will join and sell items in the Talon after the
battle.

~TO SOUTHWEST RUINS:
Use Berth in the Talon, restock your Elixirs at Buzi's shop, then fly west to
the Southwest Ruins. Save before Dahak and avoid the Unexpected Attack.

~DAHAK BOSS FIGHT:
Another difficult battle, Dahak will often use Shake and land mighty blows on
your party. Recommended level is 20-22. Use Lit2 Spells and physical attacks
against Dahak. If he uses Shake consecutively you can be in big trouble, try to
keep everyone alive and make use of Faye's Cure3 Spell. Sharon and the Durend
Sword is your best offensive option and if you get lucky you can land a mighty
blow. After the fight, get the Tablet behind Dahak. Leave and return to the
Talon to use Berth, restock Elixirs and heal up before returning to the
Southwest Ruins.

~SOUTHWEST RUINS:
Use maps to navigate here and make sure to get all the boxes, the Fire Crystal
is critical so make sure not to miss it. There are puzzles here which require
you to push stones to block the flow of water, be sure not to make a mistake
with moving the stones or you will have to reset the room and lose time. Make
sure you have collected all the items before finishing the last puzzle as you
will automatically be warped out once the last stone is moved into place. Take
encounters and keep using your Quake spells to level up and gain more GP, there
are very good enemy groups here for EXP and GP.

~TO THE FROST CAPE:
Reboard the Talon and use Berth to heal and restock Elixirs. Then fly east and
north, making sure to avoid going into the western desert or you will be pulled
into the sandstorm. Take the Tablet to find Shar at the Frost Cape and speak
with him until he says he needs more time to examine it. Then fly to the desert
in west, but make sure you SAVE FIRST.

~JORGANDR BOSS FIGHT:
Jorgandr has resistance to everything except your Durend Sword. If you were able
to get the Weak Spell it can do minor damage. Focus on Sharon using Durend and
Faye using Rune Axe as these are your best attacks, everyone else should be
supporting or healing. Jorgandr does not have much HP but can hit very hard. Try
to keep everyone alive as usual to maximize the EXP after the battle.
Recommended level is 21-22. After the fight the Talon will not be available so
heal up before heading north to Talonsburg with your Cure Spells.

~TALONSBURG:
Go north and then west to find Talonsburg. There are important items here such
as the Shield unit, so do not miss them and check maps if needed. Dr. Quacer
will unveil the Talon2 and you will now be able to fly over the waters with it.

~RECRUITING TALON CREW, LOST MAGIC AND XCALIBUR:
Equip the Shield unit to the Talon2 right away, this will allow you to fly on
the overworld without enemy encounters! First priority is to return to the Frost
Cape and talk with Shar and Buzi, they will both join the Talon2. Then you want
to locate the Cave near Eitar and pick up the items in there, most notably the
Fire Crystal. With 2 of them now, you can talk to Shar and mix them to make the
strongest spell in the game, the Flare spell. You also want to mix Earth and
Water Crystals to make at least 1 or 2 LifeB Spells. Give Flare to Gloria and
give LifeB to Arthur, then Sharon if you were able to make 2. Then fly north and
east to Zhakal which is on a small island with ice, to get Xcalibur. Faye will
draw Xcalibur and you can then visit the eastern house in Zhakal to speak with
Masa, who will join the Talon2, also be sure to get the Light Crystal in Masa's
house before leaving. Equip Xcalibur to Sharon and give Arthur the Durend Sword.

~PLUNDERING CAVES:
There are 2 more caves on the overworld to check, use maps to find them. Inside
are important items such as Dark and Light Crystals and Light Armor. Take
battles in the caves, with Quake and Flare Spells now available, you should have
minimal problems.

~TO CIRRUS THE CLOUD CITY:
Recruit Juba in Cirrus Castle and get the Laser unit on the box to the left and
Pass from King Clamin.

~SPEED SHIELDS AND CURE B SPELLS:
By now you should have enough Dark and Light Crystals to mix 2 Speed Shields
from Juba, equip them to Curtis and Gloria. At this point you should also have
enough GP to buy 1-2 CureB Spells from Shar. Give the CureB Spells to Curtis and
then Arthur in that order of priority. Also make sure to equip the Laser unit to
the Talon2 as at this point you will be doing a lengthy grinding session.

~PREPARING FOR THE UNDERWORLD:
While you can go straight to Porle City and enter the whirlgate to the
underworld, it is not advised to do so until you are at least level 27-28. Most
likely at this time you will only be level 22, and have a long way to go to get
to those levels. You are also going to need a LOT of GP, to get more CureB
Spells for your party, and to buy top tier armor in the underworld. Another
reason to level up here is you have the speed of the Talon2, to make encounters
faster, in addition to having the Laser unit for a preemptive attack, also
speeding up enemy battles. Gloria should be fast enough now having high enough
agility to go first, and between the preemptive Laser unit and Flare spell,
enemy encounters should be short. Fly in the Talon2 in a circling pattern or
left and right line near Porle City, which is on a small island east of the
large hole in the ocean and take encounters until at least level 27 for your
party. Be sure to Save after each battle, as the Tattler enemy is capable of
confusing Gloria, and if she Flares the party, you might lose progress. Also buy
Magic Potions from Buzi, and use those to restore MP rather than having to walk
to the Berth unit every time, and heal with Faye's Cure3 spell as needed. This
will save time.

~BEFORE GOING INTO THE UNDERWORLD:
When you finally reach the aforementioned levels, you should have 350000-400000
GP, trust that ALL of this will be needed. With any luck you will also have
gotten a few Warm Bracelets from enemy drops. Go to Juba and buy 4 Power Gloves
and 4 Bangle Bracelets, equip the Bangles in place of the Pendants and equip the
Power Gloves, then sell the remaining armor. Make CERTAIN that everyone in the
party has CureB Spells, and that Arthur/Sharon have LifeB Spells as this is very
important to survival.

~INTO THE UNDERWORLD:
Once you have made certain you are level 27 or higher, and have all the
aforementioned Equipment and Spells, go to Porle and enter the whirlgate to the
Underworld. Dion will join and Faye will leave the party.

~OPTIONAL SIDE QUESTING:
Once in the Underworld, you can elect to plunder the Mushroom areas, and caves,
in addition to the Twin Towers. There is some good treasure to be found,
including the items needed to make the Masamune and Emperor Mystic Swords and
Aegis Shield, more Dark and Light Crystals to make another Speed Shield, and the
E-Ray unit for the Talon2. Use maps to find all of these items if you have
chosen to obtain them, but know that it is going to take quite a long time to
get them all. So if you are attempting a Speedrun, all of these side quests
should be skipped.

~DWELG TOWN:
Use the Morph Spell when entering the Dwelg Town to avoid fighting the Dwelgs,
who are quite annoying and hit very hard. In the Armor Shop you will find some
of the best armor in the entire game. Optimally you want to buy 4 Power Armors,
5 Hecate Helmets and 5 Hermes Shoes, this is going to take a TON of GP however
so hope you have been taking encounters since the lengthy grind to level 27 in
the Talon2. The reason you want 5 of the Hecate Helmets and Hermes Shoes is to
give 1 of them each to Borgin once he joins your party. He is severely lacking
in equipment and if you are able to give him these, it can help a lot for the
last 2 boss battles. Go north to the tower in the Dwelg Town and speak to the
Dwelg in front of the fire, this will allow you to leave the Underworld when you
go east and north of town by tricking the Dwelg guard there into leaving.

~BARRIER MACHINE CAVE:
When you have left the underworld, be sure to heal up and save. Then head east
and south to find the Barrier Machine Cave. Use maps to get the items here,
including more Light/Dark Crystals, a Scarf Accessory and a Magic Potion. If you
are doing a Speedrun you should elect to skip all of these however and proceed
straight to Agron. Be sure to keep taking encounters however as you will need
all the EXP you can get at this point.

~AGRON BOSS FIGHT:
Make sure to Heal/Save on the tile before the ornate floor in front of the
Barrier Machine and Agron, as you will automatically encounter him once you step
on the ornate tile. Recommended level is 28-30. Try to avoid the Unexpected
Attack if possible, but there is another series of dialogue before the fight and
it can cost time. Agron will use White most of the time, and this will deal
upwards of 300 damage to the party. Have Arthur and Sharon use Durend and
Xcalibur and hope to land mighty blows. Curtis should be using CureB every
single round and Gloria should use Flare and CureB when needed. If you lose
party members have Arthur or Sharon use LifeB, and Curtis or Gloria use Elixirs
to revive downed party members. Agron has a stone attack, if your party member
becomes Stoned, you will not be able to use LifeB on them to revive and must use
an Elixir or Soft Potion. It is difficult to keep everyone alive but try to do
so to reap the full EXP bonus after the fight. Get the Soar unit after the
fight.

~FINAL PREP BEFORE MOUNT GOHT:
Borgin will join the party after the Agron fight. Use Exit to leave and then
call the Talon2 with the Remote. Go to Juba and buy another Power Glove, Bangle,
and Samurai Shield for Borgin, and equip him with those and the extra armor you
bought in the Dwelg Town for him. There are 2 more caves that are now accessible
and both have very important items, including a Ribbon Accessory, which you
should equip to Sharon. There are also 2 more Fire Crystals to be found, so you
can make another Flare Spell if you wish for Curtis. The Metal item is also
available to make the Aegis shield, but this also requires items found in the
Underworld Sidequests. If doing a Speedrun prioritize only the Ribbon and skip
the rest. Make sure you are completely stocked up on Elixirs, Magic Potions and
Tents before entering Mount Goht.

~MOUNT GOHT:
Use maps to navigate the direct path here, there are recovery springs on the way
so use them as required to save on items. The landscape will change after the
Talon2 destroys part of the mountain so read the map carefully. There are no
boxes to check in Mount Goht so proceed directly to Goht Castle. Continue taking
encounters, if you are at level 31 or higher, and get the Gill Man meat drop,
give it to Sharon or Arthur and they will transform into the Anubis monster,
which is very powerful and ideal for the final 2 boss fights.

~GOHT CASTLE:
The path to take here is very straight forward. Take the northwestern stairs to
the 2nd floor, hit the switch, carefully jump to get the 2 Ribbon Accessories on
the left side of the room, then fall down the large hole in the center. From
there go up and then left, then down and to the far southeastern part of the
room to get the final Ribbon Accessory. Then continue north and east to find
Balor. Take any battles you can get along the way, and if Arthur or Sharon is
level 31 or higher, take any Cyborg or Meat drops you can get. The optimal
transformation is the Anubis monster, but the Aeshma monster can also work, in
addition to the Removed or Shogun Cyborgs.

~BALOR BOSS FIGHT:
Be sure to fully Heal/Save before fighting Balor with a Tent, and try to avoid
the Unexpected Attack. Recommended level is 30 and up. Balor has a ton of HP and
some devastating attacks. If he uses physicals your party target will most
likely not survive. Attack him much the same as the Agron fight, with
Arthur/Sharon using Mystic Swords and LifeB or CureB if needed. Curtis should
use CureB every round and Gloria should use Flare and CureB as needed. Borgin
should use White, CureA, or revive downed party members with Elixirs. Keep HP as
high as possible every round as a double Nuke from Balor spells game over and
hope to land mighty blows with Durend or Xcalibur. You will most likely gain a
level after the battle, which can be a good or not so good thing depending on
the current monster(s) you have, as they will transform. Again the optimal
monster to have is Anubis, both for this fight and for the final boss.

~PATH TO SOL:
Use a Tent and Save after Balor. At this point you want to take encounters on
the way to Sol unless you already have 1 or 2 Anubis monsters. If you have
Cyborgs, continue to take encounters. You can elect to get the Nukebomb weapon
on the way to Sol as it is just a few steps from the direct route. If so equip
it to Gloria and save it for the final battle.

~SOL/XAGOR FINAL BOSS:
Recommended level is 31 or higher. Save/Tent before walking into the vertical
path to Sol as it is another auto battle. Make sure you have all 4 Ribbons
equipped and have your best equipment going into the fight. During the Sol
phase, use only weapons except the Nukebomb and have Gloria instead use the Psi
Dagger or Psi Gun. Curtis should use Psi Dagger or Psi Gun and Arthur/Sharon
should use Durend/Xcalibur. Borgin should get off at least one cast of Shell on
each party member, including himself, and then use White until Sol transforms.
Once Xagor appears, continue to attack with the Mystic Swords but use CureB and
LifeB as needed with Arthur/Sharon. Curtis should use CureB every round, Gloria
should use the Nukebomb, then reequip the Psi Dagger or Psi Gun and use Flare,
CureB or Elixirs to revive as needed. Borgin should use CureA and Elixirs as
needed, and if you get a free round without having to heal, have him use White.
Flare, LitX and Dk-Virus are Xagors most powerful attacks. Turn order can be a
real problem in this fight as Agility does not seem to matter in determining it.
Try to keep HP high and party members alive, it is going to be a long fight
usually. The Talon2 will join the battle and use the Laser or E-Ray units, and
can on occasion land a mighty blow. Xcalbur is your best offensive option so try
to use it as much as possible. Preemptive CureB is always a good move in this
fight, even if it goes off before Xagor's attack.

With any luck you will be able to defeat Xagor and finish the game. This
concludes version 1.0 of this Glitchless walkthrough guide.
