George Moffitt's Guide to Final Fantasy Legend (SaGa) 2

Feel free to modify and redistribute however you like, but give credit
where it's due and only where it's due (meaning don't turn this into a
treatise on why Hitler was a genius of social reform and put my name
on it).  The whole game in question is, of course, copyright Square
(now Square-Enix), and I did not write any of the game.

If you think this guide needs more ASCII art, I invite you to submit
clever, non-pornographic creations.  I also invite you to be a polite
non-twit when emailing me.

gmoffit@linfield.edu

Now have fun with the non-fluff pseudocontent.  Oh, that's right.  I
wrote an introduction.  Hold that thought.

Introduction:

	The SaGa games were rather simplistic GameBoy games written by
Square in the spirit of their unforgiveably inaccurately named Final
Fantasy series for Nintendo, Super Nintendo, Sony Playstation, and PC.
They weren't nearly as sophisticated or involving (being for the GameBoy),
but they were certainly a lot of fun.  The only major problems with them
as far as I can tell is that there are no Cids and no Chocobos (two
important Square traditions).  They were released in America as Final
Fantasy Legends I, II, and III.
	Some say that they are Square's best games.  I say this is
ridiculous.  They wren't good enough to surpass anything on NES or above,
but they certainly blew away everything else made for the GameBoy.  They
were fun and they were difficult, and they kept me sane through elementary
school.  I guess that when it comes down to it that's all that's
important.
	I have a feeling that I'll get a lot of arguments about some
things I put in here, but realize before you do that I practically lived
this game for a year or two, and as a result I know its ins and outs
almost perfectly.  This means that I am always right, compared to you,
who are always wrong.
	This file is a walkthrough of sorts, but along the way I'll answer
a lot of questions I've seen bad answers given to in the past.  I use the
same method to run through the game every time, and find it incredibly
easy to plow my way through like this.  This is not an exhaustive guide,
mind you.  It tells you what you should be doing at any given time, but it
doesn't give a step-by-step, hand-holding walkthrough of the game.  You
are, for the most part, expected to be able to find your way through the
levels on your own.  I hope to eventually have some maps, at least of the
more tedious levels, but for now it remains simplistic.  Think of it as a
sort of "FFL2 made easy" guide.
	On a final note, keep in mind that I wrote this entire file from
memory.  As a result, all information contained within was NOT taken from
elsewhere, but was actually discovered by me at some point or another.  I
haven't played the game in ages, though, what with FF7 being out on PC and
all, so there may be some memory lapses that need filling. Remember that I
wrote this file to give the proper answers to a lot of questions.  If any
hardened SaGa fans out there notice any problems, however miniscule, I'd
appreciate hearing them.  I don't want someone to have to write a file to
correct my mistakes.
	Copying of this file is your choice.  I'd like to get credit
among certain circles, but who cares, anyway?  Consider it GPL'd.

Tips and Such:
	The save anywhere feature lends itself to certain abuses.  You can
get through a level without ever having to actually fight anyone, for
instance, simply by saving and resetting whenever necessary.  This makes
the Nasty Dungeon very easy, but it takes a while and can be quite
frustrating (especially when you get that obnoxious "Can't Run!" message).
	Also, be sure that your mutant always has at least one Cure
ability.  Inns, you see, charge one GP for each HP you need to recover,
and nothing for the ability restoration.  This means that you can heal
your entire party, sleep at the inn for free, and wake up with all of your
cures restored.  Good deal, no?
	In SaGa 3 they fixed this a bit, charging one GP for each HP and
MP you needed to recover.  This meant doing a bit of math to see if the MP
cost would justify the HP recovery before going to an inn.

Choosing a Party:
	The ideal party, in my opinion, is one of everything.  You get
some equipment for every character type along the way, and it helps a lot
if you can use it all.  Also, you'll notice that each flawed party the
manual lists is backed up by the fact that their biggest problem is being
ill-fitted to certain areas of the game.  With one of each type, you'll
always have a character who's suited to the environment.

	* Robots are basically immune to physical attacks, so they'll
always be in top form for boss battles.
	* Humans are good with physical attacks, and the Glass Sword
and Excalibur are very important things to be good with.  They also get
high HPMax values, so they can take a beating and still dish it out.
	* Mutants are all-important, in any party.  With a properly-
learned magician, you'll be completely healed for all those boss battles.
Plus, entire enemy/group attacks are scarce early in the game, but mutants
get them for free.
	* Monsters are convenient early on, but where they really shine
is in the last battle (if you've got the right one).

	For your Monster you should get a Baby-D, and as soon as you can,
eat some Jaguar meat.  This will give you a WereRat, which is pretty
powerful at this point.
	Make sure your Robot gets as much armor as he can as soon as
possible.  If all but one of your characters have fallen using this
method, it's going to be your Robot who stays alive about 95% of the time
if you do this.  Every time you improve/add to his armor, his DEF and HP
will increase, and that makes it nigh impossible to kill him with physical
attacks (and it's absolutely essential for beating Apollo).

   First World:
	After doing your business in the beginning town (which basically
consists of getting a cure potion), go outside with Mr. S. and start
monster hunting.  This may seem like a boring way to start the game, but
before exiting the cave you should fight until you have 3,400 GP, and you
should buy some gold gloves for your Robot with this (at the first town
outside of the cave).  Another thing to be sure about before you exit the
cave is that your Mutant has Cure, a single-group attack magic, and an
entire-enemy attack magic (preferably of different elements, should you
want to take advantage of monster weaknesses).  Keep these three abilities
at the top of your list so that they don't change.
	You get free lodging at this point, which is why it's so important
that you take advantage of it.  Before you exit the cave, you can always
go back and rest at your house.  Once you've left Mr. S., go to the Shrine
of Isis and use Ki to heal (or use your mutant's cure ability), then go to
the inn for free to replenish your abilities.
	If you've done this, the Relics of the Ancient Gods should be
easy. Give any Mana MAGI you get to your Mutant, Power MAGI to your Human,
Defense MAGI to your Monster (he'll usually be the most deficient in this
attribute besides your Mutant, who benefits most from the Mana MAGI), and
Speed MAGI to your Robot (so his kick-ass attacks come first).
	Now Ki will join your party, and you should clean up the
countryside until you have 6,800 GP.  Ki's Thunder book and your MAGI make
this tedious but easy, so patience is all you need.  Buy your Robot a SMG
and move on.  Ki will leave fairly soon, so don't worry about her
equipment.
	Now go to Ashura's Base and kick that Rhino's arse.  It won't be
difficult, just make sure you fight him until you get some good meat for
your Monster (I don't recall what he'll turn into, but I remember being
satisfied with the results).
	Once the base is destroyed, move along to the next world via the
Pillar of Sky.

   The Sand Witch:
	Here you should fix any Monster problems you have and make sure
your party is well-equipped.  Follow the clues that the men in the cafe
(particularly the bartender) give you to get to Ashura's Tower.  Fight
your way up until you get Mask. You'll have to fight a fairly sturdy
jailer to get him, but it shouldn't be a problem.  On the next floor Mask
gets a hammer and some other equipment.  Give him any hand-me-downs the
party has if he's missing any armor types, but keep in mind that you can't
REMOVE items from an NPC, only give them to him/her.  Ashura's a
wimp, so beat her up and move on to the next world (make sure you get the
MAGI from Ki's assistant).

   Raiding the Cupboards:
	This place is nuts, because very little is self-explanatory.  In
the town in the middle of the forest you'll notice that the entry path has
two branches off it.  Take the right one and you'll meet Dad.  For some
reason the party members rearrange completely for this, so make sure you
put them back in the best order (usually Robot-Monster-Human-Mutant, but
it changes throughout the game). Keep going until you find the back door
to that overpriced giant equipment store.  You get no free items, but the
guy gives you a tip that a man named Johnny knows how to get into the
ruins of the giants' town.  You'll find him in the cafe, and once he's
told you how to get in it will be possible for you to do so.  The secret
passage he's talking about is in the north stairs.
	He'll ask you if you think he's a giant.  Tell him you don't and
he'll give you a tip about the "shelves".  A better translation would be
"counters", I assume, as that's what they look like.  Look for areas that
are like the boundary between you and sellers when you're in shops (those
dark colored squares).
	Once in giants' town, you'll notice that you can't use the doors.
Fairly far south is a big building with a hole in it that you can walk
through.  There are some MAGI in here, and these will let you go into
another building with a hole in it that you couldn't get into before.  Go,
and on top of a table is the Micron potion.  Nab it and leave.
	By this time you may have noticed there is a pattern to the
attacks in the game, and that is an attack upon starting after turning the
GameBoy on, an attack three steps later, an attack on the next step, and
then a long time without being attacked (resetting and continuing counts
as a step).
	On the first attack after that empty period, you fight 8
terrorists if you're not in a building, then the next time you're attacked
you'll fight 5.  They probably won't be able to hurt your Robot, so just
keep pelting them with the SMG and your Mutant's magic and they'll die
easily (and as a group, too).  Both of these fights will give you lots of
GP, so save it up and buy some new armor at the giant store (Robot!).
Just remember to turn the GameBoy off and on after you fight the 5.
	I think the best Monster you can have when you leave here is the
Oni.

   Ki's Body:
	Now make that long trek back to first world and go see Ki.  This
part is very simple; just go through Ki's body and collect all the MAGI.
Later I hope to have a list of which fingers/toes the MAGI appear in, but
this is all for now.  Just remember to go to her brain after you've gotten
all the other MAGI (the hands, feet, heart, and stomach).  Once you're
done, move on to Apollo's World.

   Meet the Man:
	This World is split up into three parts.  Before you do anything,
though, see Apollo in his palace to get a MAGI from him and some clues to
the World, which aren't necessary, really, but the MAGI is still nice.
	Next step would be to go to the Dunatis town in the northeast
mountains. Just north of it is a cave that leads to some good boots.  Give
them to your mutant (they increase magic power) and leave.
	Now you have two options: Complete the Dunatis cave by circling
around the mountain range, or go south and explore the underwater volcano.
It really doesn't matter which order these two are done in, but I usually
tackle the volcano first.
	Remember in the volcano that every step you take in the lava hurts
you, so step only where you need to.  Use the fountains when you see them
until you are completely healed, and keep going up.
	When you get TrueEye at the end of the volcano you'll be able to
tackle the Insanity Cave of the eastern mountains.  You may want to turn
the GameBoy off every few minutes and look at something stationary or
you'll go nuts, blind, or both.  Just go through, searching every avenue
and getting every treasure, until you get the MAGI at the end.
	There's nothing major about Dunatis's cave.  Just plow through and
be ready to fall down a ledge and be stuck there.  The only way out is
though Dunatis, so don't go in there weak (if you've followed my
instructions you'll be able to beat him easily, despite Lynn and her
measly kick).  If you're having trouble, try equipping Lynn with some cure
potions (if you have any).  That way she can cure party members during the
fight, and you won't be missing out on any major attacks.
	Now you'll find that Apollo has skipped town, and you should have
enough MAGI to do likewise.  You'll end up in Guardians' Base.  Looks
suspiciously like a town, huh?  Well, not for much longer (ahem).

   Guardians' Base:
	Stock up on supplies, because this is your only chance to do so,
and play the Heroic Tune in the cafe (this one took me forever to figure
out for some strange reason: you can scroll down in the jukebox menu to
get all the selections).
	After you've been jailed, go to the bars and press A.  Dad will
come and get you released.  Explore for a bit and you'll soon take a nap
in Dad's room.  In the middle of the night some new gods will attack the
base, and all the MAGI there will be taken.  Fight your way out, getting
MAGI and Dad as you go, and you'll soon reach the Pillar of Sky.  The
enemy there tells you to go get Lynn in the next world, so do.  You'll
notice along the way that some people somehow managed to set up stores in
the Celestial World.  When you're using the elevator, just hold down right
or left to stop there.

   Monster's World:
	Next world has only one thing: a monster.  Dad will be gone, and
you'll have Lynn again (now with the only marginally less crappy X-kick).
It should be a fairly tough battle.  When he's dead you take Lynn home and
get a MAGI from her mother if you talk to her.  Move back up, back up,
back up (there MUST be a better way to do this), until you're in
Venus's world.  This part's pretty fun.

   Venus's Beauty Emporium:
	Talk to Venus (use Prism to discover just how big a liar she is)
and maybe Flora if you need the plot (which is always good).  Flora is the
woman standing to the left of the palace.  Leave Venus's fair city.
There'll be a dumpy city with an inn a little bit north, and you'll find
Leon there.  Just a little bit away from the north wall of the city is the
sewer entrance, so go down there.
	The sewer won't be difficult.  Kill the crab to get the key, and
use the key to get the MAGI.  Just remember that the lower-right chest in
each locked room has monsters in it.
	After this, talk to Venus, and then Flora again, and a volcano
will rise up from the ground.  The same rules apply here as did with the
underwater volcano.  Go through, and Leon will come (you may have noticed
him following you) and take a Power MAGI.  Silly Leon.
	Go back to Venus's City and enter the left side of the palace.  In
the hall is Venus.  She tells you to take a seat, so you do, and the
ceremony starts.
	Right before the vows, Leon comes barging in (we can only assume
that his MAGI and dagger were enough to kill those robot guards) with
blood in his eyes, and starts making wild threats.  Venus is about to kill
him when Flora butts in and does something rash.  Talk to Leon to get the
MAGI back (you'll want it for your monster, who will be the only one
making strength-based attacks) and get ready to whup some pompous ass.
	Give your Robot a musket and your Human some grenades (the Flame
Sword is powerful but EXTREMELY unreliable.  It might hit once out
of five rounds if you're lucky, and I'd rather do 120 damage each round
then 315 damage every five rounds). Your Monster should have a STRONG
physical attack, and you'll want good cure magic with your Mutant.  Venus
will be a challenge, and you may find yourself killing her with only your
Robot left standing (he's immune to some of her tougher attacks, like
Charm).
	Happy ending, real sweet, but you've got a LOT of stuff left to
do. Next world is the dragon race, hosted by... Apollo!

   A Day at the Races:
	This is fairly simple.  Some DAMN fine weapons and armor
are suddenly available, so don't miss out on this opportunity to spend all
that cash Venus left you with.  Take the SLOWEST dragon (the free
one). I cannot emphasize this enough.  There are a lot of difficult bosses
on the track, but if you take the slow dragon then the other racers will
beat them for you (all except the last).  Remember what the bartender here
says, "The longest way 'round is the fastest way home."
	To kill those eye thingies it might be best to keep resetting and
attacking until you fight only two or three.  They're tough opponents, so
you'll need every advantage you can muster.  You may even want to keep at
it until you get some meat for your Monster, as he'll be in dire need of
it.  I think that a Sprite is the best I've ever ended up with at this
point, but that is, as always, profoundly affected by your monster's
current state.

   Forbidden Fruit:
	Next world is Edo, my favorite.  Fight the Hatamotos on the bridge
in the big town and Hana will show up and chase them away.  Buy some
stuff, especially from Echigoya as you won't be able to get stuff from him
for very long (he sells some items you won't be able to buy again until
Final Town, so it may be worth saving up the 50,000 GP for a Flare book
NOW to beat Magnate with later on).
	Now your Robot will probably have about 600-700 HP, and your
Monster should be rather formidable.  Go to the town a little ways East of
the Hatamotos' town and you should find Hana in one of the buildings. Talk
with her and you'll suddenly find yourself pulled into a drug bust.
Unfortunately, due to Nintendo's fear that any "mature" subject matter
might leak through to the most immature country on the planet (U.S.A.!
U.S.A.!), you're stopping a banana shipment.  I have no proof that this is
the result of censorship, but I've seen what they've done to the other
Square games and I wouldn't put it past 'em.  Remember what the guy in the
big town says about how bad he wants a banana?  Read between the lines.
	Now go back to Echigoya and talk to him (from the side, not over
the counter).  He's a wimp, and he'll crack and tell you that the shipment
has just come in.
	Go to the port (it's pretty much due South) and follow the second
pier.  This isn't a very long level, so it'll be pretty easy.  Make sure
you get ALL the treasures, because your Robot can make excellent use of a
tank (it's like a Defend sword, except it attacks an entire group of
enemies).  You'll find Hana and her pal (who I think turns out to be a
Guardian, or at least associated with them) and they'll tell you that the
ship is full of bananas, as they suspected.  Her friend will go to the
court and alert the authorities, and she will join you on the way out of
the ship.  When you get out, go to the court (West) and the judge will
send someone to fetch Echigoya and another officer to check out his ship.
	Well, either Echigoya bribed the police or he had a little help,
because the boat's already been cleared out.  Now you've got a reputation
to protect, and you can't have this guy screwing it up, so you have to go
kick his butt.
	You'll notice that he's no longer at his counter, and you can
enter his storerooms.  Just follow the hallway until you reach the last
door.  Inside will be Echigoya and ShoGun, discussing their plans.  Plow
through Echigoya and his guards and ShoGun will give himself up.
	But is your job done?  Certainly not.  Someone else is behind all
this, and it's your job to get rid of him.  He's collecting MAGI, so he
probably has the MAGI you need to get to the next world.
	Go through the castle (make sure you get ALL the treasure,
especially the stat potions and Samurai Bow) and you'll eventually fight
and defeat ShoGun (if you don't you obviously haven't been following my
instructions at all, because he's the easiest enemy in the game).  His
boss will show up and kill him for being a twit, and invite you to see the
view from the roof.
	This is an interesting spot.  If you walk up to a statue and push
A you'll fight a Dolphin, which is a TOUGH enemy at this point.
You'd probably be able to kill it, but you need to save your strength for
Magnate, so don't do it.  You can always come back later.  Just fight and
kill Magnate (it will be a long battle, but shouldn't be too difficult.
Just make sure you keep healing) and get his MAGI.

   Nastiness and Tedium:
	This next world is a chore.  The only MAGI is the one in the chest
at the beginning, but you MUST go through the dungeon if you
want a chance at beating the game.  It has some extremely important items
in it, such as the Glass Sword, Arthur Armor, Parasuit, NukeBomb, Selfix
(makes your Robot recover HP at the end of a battle round), and the Hyper
Cannon (give this to your Robot for 1 use/day).  When you get to the end
say whatever you like to the fairy, because if she sends you back you can
just use the Pegasus MAGI to get out (it acts just like a door).  If
anyone knows where I can get a map of this place, I'd appreciate knowing.
I can never remember which paths to take at the forks.

   Valhalla Palace:
	Next world is Odin's.  He's a nice guy, but you'll have to fight
him no matter what.  Don't miss the Flare books in Valhalla Palace, should
you actually want to win some boss battles. IMPORTANT: Before
fighting Odin, you must lose a battle SOMEWHERE and promise Odin
you will fight him.  If you don't, there's about a 90% chance when you
fight him that it'll be an Unexpected Attack, which is bad, bad, bad, bad,
bad, bad, bad, bad, BAD!  Use Flare and Aegis MAGI (the BEST
defense you can use in combat. It protects the user from all physical
attacks in the round it's used and protects the entire party from most
magic for the whole battle).  If you find him easy enough, fight him until
you get some meat from Sleipnir or OdinCrows (Thunnin and Munnin,
presumably).  This'll probably set you up with one of those sword guys or
something.  A Hofud, I think it's called.

   The Final World:
	Work your way out and to the next world, where you'll meet Apollo
again.  He'll reveal his true badass colors and you'll fight some birdmen.
Use Aegis, Masamune (if your Human can't do more than 500 damage with
anything else, that is), and whatever magic you feel like to kill 'em.
They won't be a problem, and soon Apollo will take all 76 of your MAGI and
run, confident that he has what he needs to be King of the Gods.
	You're just about to give up for good when Dad (Dad!) comes and
lets you know that it's not over yet.  It seems that the Guardians made up
a myth that there were only 77 MAGI to prevent people like Apollo from
gathering all 78.  Yes, that's right, there's one left.  And what better
place to look for it than in the Final Dungeon, mm?
	Stop at Final Town and buy some new equipment, because the Final
Dungeon is pretty long, and its boss is pretty difficult.
	WarMachine will stab you in the ass, even, unless you spend some
time pumping yourselves up before taking him on.  Remember that you don't
have your MAGI anymore, so your party will need to compensate for their
inadequacies in other ways.  If you can beat him without using NukeBombs,
DO SO, but don't be afraid to use them if you have to.  If you
didn't get Excalibur, go back and get it (there's a room with a hallway
that leads in a ring around it, and Excalibur's in the hallway).  It's the
best sword in the game, if you don't count the Glass Sword, which has only
one use (NOT YET!).  It's basically equivalent to a
strength-driven Samurai Bow with infinite uses, doing about 750 damage to
an entire group of enemies.  Don't miss the second Parasuit, either.
	Now you have the last MAGI: Heart.  Give it to your Robot and exit
the dungeon.  Having the one MAGI will allow you to go to the Central
Shrine via the Pillar of Sky, where Apollo is waiting to become the
supreme god. You may want to build up some mana before taking him on,
because magic will certainly be the key tool for winning the battle.
	This is without question the most difficult battle of the game, so
make SURE that both your Mutant and Dad have heal rods and Flare
books. Yes, I know they're expensive, but saving up the cash will give you
an excuse to improve your stats.  Dad will do EITHER 400 or 800
damage with Flare in any given round (I don't know what determines it, but
this can mean the difference between winning the battle and losing it),
and your Mutant should have high enough mana to do maybe 300-500 damage
with it.  Heal rods should ideally be able to heal your party in one round
(this means improving EVERYONE'S mana), but it's not completely
necessary.  So long as your Mutant and Monster heal completely, you'll be
fine.
	You'll get a few rounds against Apollo before he transforms when
he doesn't do anything.  The damage you do here still counts against him,
as he doesn't heal when he transforms (I only deduced this from the fact
that I could beat him when I used all my heavy artillery early on more
easily than when I waited). Use your NukeBombs and the Glass Sword here,
as well as whatever other stong attacks you can fit in (laser guns,
Excalibur, etc.).  He transforms the turn after he's silent, and when he
does so, timing is of the essence.
	Apollo should use Masamune first thing, so this'll give you a
round where all you have to do is have your Mutant use her cure magic in
case he hits your Robot (you have no way of knowing who he'll attack, but
your Robot must be kept at full HP, and the rest of your characters will
die anyway). Next round he'll use Flare, which will probably kill off
everyone but your Robot, and maybe Dad and your Human.  That means that
your Robot should use Heart that round (it'll be the ninth option in his
list).  If your Robot turns out to be superfast and he does this before
Apollo uses Flare, you're screwed.  If that's not avoidable, have him use
it the next round and hope to God that he beats Apollo to the first attack
again.  This leaves you pretty short on turns, though, because you'll
essentially be wasting the Masamune round.
	Your party is now alive and well with full HP.  KICK HIS
ASS! You'll get only one Masamune round before he uses Flare, so get
in the damage while you can!  Forget the heal rods, just pound him!  With
luck, he'll start to melt.  NOW you heal!  If Dad dies before
Apollo explodes, the explosion hits YOU.  Keep him alive at all
costs.  If everyone else keeps dying here, give Dad a Cure book to heal
himself with.  That's how important it is.  Just remember that when the
battle ends, at least one member of your party must still be alive.  If
all goes well, Apollo and Dad will die. I know, 0 GP is sort of silly for
a battle this climactic, but you'll get something much, much better.
	No, I'm not talking about all 78 MAGI, although that is fun to
play around with.  I'm talking about Isis.  999 HP, 99 STR, 99 DEF, 99
AGL, and 99 MANA!  The first thing you'll want to do is
arrange her Ability list so that the MAGI you'll use most in combat appear
higher up in her attack list.  I suggest:

* Flare
* Aegis
* Masmune
* Heart
* etc.

   The Final Boredom:
	Now comes the next degree of tedium.  Since the elevator is
broken, you need to take the escalator.  BRING TENTS! You may think
you're pretty cool with your save, walk, reset, walk, repeat, but that's
beside the point.  There are a few mini-bosses whose meat you want, so be
ready to fight them at your peak condition.  If you're utterly baffled as
to what you're trying to do down there, talk to Isis every step of the way
with the B button.  The world is falling apart, and the only way Isis can
stop it is by getting to the center of the world.  There's a security
system there, though, that's gone completely bonkers and you're going to
have to stop it.
	When you get past the escalators and onto the tile walkways
(you'll know 'em when you get there), take advantage of the attack pattern
(the one about the number of steps you take) and Isis's Flare attack to
get to Arsenal (the security system).  This is the LAST boss!  It's
over!
	In the true spirit of Square, this is a segmented battle.  It
happens in three main phases.  I'll get to that later, though.  First you
need to know what kind of team to have.

The Final Team:

* Robot:
	* Selfix
	* Laser Gun
	* Hyper Cannon
	* Seven Sword (I'll explain shortly)
	* Excalibur
	* Whatever armor gets your goat
* Human:
	* 999 HP
	* HIGH STR
	* Laser Gun
	* Parasuit
	* Seven Sword
* Mutant:
	* Recover
	* HIGH HP
	* HIGH Mana
	* Cure
	* Flare (books)
	* Parasuit
	* Thunder, Ice, or Fire Ability (Single-Group)
	* Flare Ability
	* Heal Rod
* Monster:
	* Titania

	You want to give Excalibur to your Robot because your Human won't
be using it and it gives some major stat boosts to Robots.  Also, keep in
mind that this won't all be necessary.  I barely used my Mutant for
anything but healing, so the only essential things for her are high MaxHP
and Mana.  The Seven Swords are also completely superfluous, and are only
there as a novelty for people whose parties can use them properly.
	To get the Seven Swords, you need to fight Haniwas.  Remember when
you used the attack rhythm to fight terrorists in the Giants' Town?  Well,
if you're in the tile walkway area, at the spot where you'd have 8
terrorists you'll have a Haniwa.  These are EXTREMELY difficult,
possibly harder to kill than Arsenal, and are consequently the only
enemies in the entire last level that you can run from.  To pull this off
you'll need the party stated above as well as an abundance of Flare books
and tents.
	Use Flare, Masamune, Heart, EVERYTHING!  Make sure Isis
uses Aegis in the first round so that nobody gets hurt by Haniwa's quake.
The only devastating attacks will be Flare (maybe doing about as much as
your Titania might at this point, but defnitely enough to bring your party
down to very low hit points) and Haniwa's Seven Sword (doing up to 3500
damage, even to your Robot!).  If Haniwa's Flare leaves you totally
devastated (with Isis barely alive), use Heart.  If you can't win this any
legitimate way and you want to be a sissy, the Hyper Cannon will work.
Every time you beat Haniwa you have a chance of getting a Seven Sword,
which has seven uses and can hit up to seven times in one use.  My party
has about ten of these things in its inventory (yes, I got them all the
hard way), but none of my characters can use them very well.
	It is VERY important that your Monster becomes a Titania if
this party is going to work.  This is about the only point where your
Monster becomes important to your survival, and it has to be perfect.
Arsenal has no resistance to magic of any kind, so you can use whatever
you like against it.  Since Titania has Fire, Ice, Thunder, Flare, Cure,
and 99 Mana, it's an important thing to have.  If I had my pick of a
single party to fight Arsenal with, it would be three Titanias and a
Mutant for the heal rod (even though you could never get this far with
that party).  I have no instructions about how to get Titania, but I've
done it more than once.  If anyone has a guide for it, or maybe a chart of
all the Monster types, I'd appreciate it greatly.

The Final Battle:
	Because of Arsenal's mind-numbing physical defense (those Samurai
Bows, the Gungnir Spear, and Excalibur will only do about 275 damage), you
need to make sure your Robot and Human each has a Laser Gun (doing about
315 damage, and every little bit counts).
	Now begins the fun.  Arsenal's first stage is the Cannons Round.
Arsenal has four self-repairing cannons, each taking four rounds to
completely repair itself.  This means that you have to average at least
one cannon per round if you want to get past it.  Since each cannon has
exactly 1,000 HP, this might be difficult for some people (but not with
Titania(s)!).  Titania will do about 750 damage with Flare, so accompany
it with just about anything else and the cannons are toast in two or three
rounds.
	The second stage is the Smasher Round.  For about three rounds
(I'm NOT positive about that number, and it's VERY important
to know the right number for reasons I'll explain in the next paragraph)
Arsenal will use a rather wimpy single-character physical attack.  This
means that your Robot should suffer no damage, and the rest of your party
will be in good shape, too.  Have your Mutant heal the party from any
damage the cannons did, because you will need every point you can muster
in the next round.  Use that last Flare attack here, as well as any your
Mutant can throw at it before you need him/her for healing again.
	The third stage is the worst.  Here, Arsenal will launch the
smasher (I'm sure this was a bit more descriptive in the Japanese version)
at your party, doing anywhere from 200 to 600 damage each round to
ALL of your members.  This means having your Mutant use the
heal rod starting with the FIRST ROUND.  Your Mutant should be
relatively late in the attack order, so this needs to come right after the
first launch, and right after all subsequent launches (if this doesn't
compensate enough for the damage, remember that your Titania will have a
fair chance of getting a single-person cure in before arsenal attacks if
you need it).
	Just keep using the heal rod and keep hitting Arsenal with
everything you've got until it falls.  I think Titianias do about 650
damage with their regular elemental spells, so this should be fairly easy.
If anyone dies, it's likely to be your Human.  Your Monster and Mutant
will be just about completely healed by the heal rod, and the Robot
recovers HP with Selfix.  Don't worry too much about keeping your human
alive, because getting an attack in with Titania is better than using up a
round to cure him.  Don't feel bad about not getting any GP off it,
because there is NO use for it anymore! You (I) won!
	Now all that's left to do is talk to Isis and go up the elevator.
Try using Titania's teleport for that annoying buzzing sound.  Talk to Dad
and the final music starts, which means you have no control over the text
boxes (it's choreographed).
	Hmm... don't you find any of that interesting?  I mean, Mask being
Lynn's dad, and all.  It makes that whole sequence fall into place.  Mask
was a Guardian, remember (a guy in the town near Ashura's Tower gives that
away).
	Interesting Fact - For those of you who have Final Fantasy Legend
III: There's a family in the town you end up in just after leaving the
Underworld that gives you an important part for the Emperor sword.  They
say they're looking for the Lost Ark.  Sound familiar?  Be sure to say hi
to the kid, 'cause he's an old buddy of mine.

   Odds and Ends:
	There are two "codes" or "cheats" in this game I feel I ought to
mention.  One is clearly a bug, and the other is clearly not.
	The bug is that if you throw away a large number of quest items
(items that can only be gotten from treasure chests, and possibly
monsters), and then try to equip a party member with the trash can, their
stats go way up.  I've never seen or done this personally, but I've heard
that it works.  There's really no need, though; I'd rather have the item.
I do end up having to trash a lot of stuff in the Nasty Dungeon, though,
so this may come in handy after all.
	My greatest discovery about this game was when I stumbled upon the
sound test.  In the title screen, hold down SELECT, START, and B.  It's
Japanese, remember, so it goes right-left to progress up in the numbers.
You can hear all the sound effects and music (including the two ending
themes) with this, without having to spend all your GP on the jukeboxes.
