FINAL FANTASY LEGEND 2 (MAKAI TOUSHI SaGa 2) Walkthrough
By Autumn Palmer
Sunsoft 1998
For the original Nintendo Game Boy - 1 player

~INDEX~
 1.  Beginner's Guide to setting out
 2.  Walkthrough
 3.  Notes

I've been in love with this series ever since it came out. To new
buyers - the official copy should provide you with a big manual,
map/item page and the game cartridge. There are two versions of the
game artwork, thanks to a European release! I have the advantage of
owning the Japanese game guide and someone marked in the locations of
all the treasure chests...

1. Beginner's Guide to setting out

"MAGI. The symbol of great power. The legacy of the ancient gods who
made this world. Many fought for the mighty power. Some won, and some
failed. Now...another legend of bravery is about to begin..."

After this introduction, the game will take you to the character select
screen. You can choose one character who will lead the adventure from start
to finish. Names can only be 4 letters long (hey, it's an old game). The
two at the top of the list are human-type characters who are good all-round
warriors. The next two characters are called Mutants (or Espers) who use
magic. The last four characters are monsters of various types.

Humans
...make the best leaders. Good all-rounders, you can equip them with at
least 4 weapons, allowing for three or four armour slots at the bottom
for shields, gauntlets etc. In this game, they slowly level up.

MALE:
Starts with a Long Sword x50 and Bronze armor. The stats have been evened
out betweeb the boys and girls, this time.

FEMALE:
Starts with a Saber x50 and Bronze armor. Looks different from the first
game. You can buy "steroids" not only for humans but for mutants.

Mutants
...you can have one who is a leader, but he/she should be backed up by
someone who is a human or another mutant. Espers CAN equip things, having
six or seven slots for armour or weapons. Their magic is very good and
they develop powers. Fights should be timed to coincide with Mutant
development. Put them in the front of battles to get levels. You can buy
"steroids" not only for humans but for mutants.

MALE:
Starts with Hammer x50, Bronze armor and "Blizzard" spell. Males do tend
to generate lots of offensive spells and can use spell chests really well.

FEMALE:
Very cute long hair, starts with a Bow x50, Bronze armor and "Flame" spell.
Females generate avoidance spells such as ESP and have the same HP as
males, so they are good to have as leader "decoys" while other characters
hit the monster.

MONSTERS
DON'T have a leader who is a monster. They make good characters for the
tail end of a party. They eat meat left behind by enemy monsters, which
changes them into different monsters. It's best to try for a really
powerful monster like Redbull. If you seek abilities like HEAL and WHIRL
(even works on bosses), keep eating! Monsters cannot equip items, but
have abilities marked "X" (Weak against) and "O" (Immune to).

SUB-SCREEN
The subscreen is jazzed up with blippy sounds and smarter text. When you
press Start it appears. You can see your party on the right (with a space
at the bottom for NPC's) and a list of six commands on the left. The bottom
boxes show your bank balance and the amount of MAGI you have acquired.

The first option, ABIL, allows you to see the developing abilities of your
characters. Some abilities will be limited (for example, Flame x15 can be
used 10 times before your character must rest at an inn), others will have
an - sign, meaning "infinite". You can also check their stats on the left.

ITEM shows your items list. You can have a total of 16 in storage! At the
bottom is a bin.

EQUIP allows you to, well, Equip your characters with armour and weapons.
Note that you CANNOT unequip NPC's, so act wisely.

MAGI
Tells you about the Magi. You can equip them too.

MEMO
Added feature in case you get lost, say, after a two year break. You can
read back information from the past, too.

SAVE: Efficient option allows you to save in seconds; you WILL be using
this option ALL THE TIME. To reset the game, hold down A+B+Start+Select.

ALTER ORDER
This appears when you press Select. Click twice to swap the order of the
party. For more information, see the manual.

MY FATHER HAS GONE! WON'T YOU JOIN ME IN A SEARCH FOR HIM?

-WORLD 1-

~THE RELICS OF THE ANCIENT GODS~

You start off in your little village in the valley. "Mr. S" will allow you
to choose 3 permanent members to party with. When you're ready to leave
town, he will accompany you on your journey through North Cave. In the
countryside you will face random battles, but necessary for money and meat.
After you enter commands, the battle will continue round for round until one
or the other side is defeated. If you die at this stage, your characters will
remain in the "Stun" state until you visit an inn; you can rest in the village
for free. Furthermore, you don't have to worry about losing Hearts! At the
end of the North Cave is a Baby Wyrm boss. Once you have defeated it, Mr. S
says goodbye and jams the entrance to the cave FOR GOOD. You have to go on.

BABY WYRM: 2000 HP

This area will test your party choices to the limit. You'll need to use swords
and get all the best armour from the nearby village before going to Ki's
shrine on the edge of the northern mountains. Level up and get stronger, and
save up for Gold equipment. In the Shrine of Isis, Ki will tell you that there
might be relics in the Relics of the Ancient Gods to the south.

To find the forested Relics, go 3 spaces south and 4 east of the south
mountain. On the first floor are four chests, one on the left of the entrance
and then three more empty ones in a chamber right of the exit in the
northwest corner. Go straight to the right middle exit and then to floor 3,
where there is a scene where people are stealing the MAGI. Chase them into the
next part of the temple and on floor 5, there are 4 chests dotted about and you
find all the stolen Magi - Power, Speed and Mana. Go back to Ki. She heals you
and then joins your party; it's time to go to Ashura's Base, deep in the
mountains to the north. Nearby is a third town marked in Japanese as having an
association with flowers (Flower village?). It has expensive weapons. Take
advantage of Ki to help you level up, because she has a powerful Thunder
spell.

~ASHURA'S BASE~

Don't touch anyone here, although they look normal - they are all enemies!
The tower is pretty straightforward, with a chest containing a Speed Potion
on floor 3 in the southeast corner. On floor 4 is a chest containing a free
Silver gauntlet, hooray! On the final (5th) floor are 4 chests. The nearest
one contains an Axe and the rest contain MAGI. Attack the Rhino - equip
Magi to make the battles easier. You get Defence, Ice and Fire Magi in the
other chests. Now that the base has collapsed you can reach the Pillar of
Sky.

~PILLAR OF SKY~

The world in Final Fantasy Legend 2 is arranged as a series of floating
islands all hanging from the edge of a round sky shaped like a dinner plate
filled with water, with Apollyon's temple in the middle. The Sky Pillars are
poking through the bottom of the plate like rice stalks, with the strings
connected to the various lands. You have enough Magi to use the celestial
beanstalk. Ki gives a quick pep talk and leaves. You make your way to world
2, Ashura's World. It's basically a windy desert, and Desert Town is left.
There's also a town northwest of Ashura's Tower. Power up and save for
Silver equipment.

-WORLD 2-

~ASHURA'S TOWER~

The layout is very straightforward, with chests on floors 4, 7 and 9
(a Saber, Colt and Silver Shield respectively). On floor 5, rescue a Masked
Man from a Woodman and he will join you as your next NPC. On floor six you
will find his belongings; he has good weapons but no spells. Ashura is on the
final (10th) floor where there are 4 chests containing a power potion,
a magic potion, a Battle sword and a Silver helmet. Use Mask's hammer to
finish Ashura off; make sure you take loads of "steroids" and have good
equipment with you. Kill Ashura (again?) and you get seven more Magi
including Mana, Thunder and Power.

ASHURA: 900 HP

You will then be warped back to the
Shrine of Isis, where monsters have invaded Ki's body! The Fairy helper
will give you a Defence Magi. Now you have to go to the Giants' World
in order to find a magic potion that will shrink (Micronise) your party
so that you can go inside her body and find 6 Magi. It's back up the
beanstalk again...

-WORLD 3-

~THE GIANTS' WORLD~

There is a town just below the beanstalk. The monsters here are really,
really tough. Use grenades, spells and guns on them. When you are ready
talk to the guy at the bar and find Dad hidden in the town. Go back and
Johnny will tell you how to get into the Old Giants' Town (it's a great
place!). Go east from the town and up. You'll find a different-coloured
area on the bottom of the giant rock stairs. Then you will be transported
to the top of the stairs. You can enter the northernmost house and the
west house using a little hole in the wall. You can get Poison and
Power Magi from the west house and the Geta Shoes, a Gold shield and
bottle of Micron from the other one. The Old Giants' Town is a good
place to fight.

~KI'S BODY~

Go back and use the Micronise to get into Ki's Body. You will enter in
her head. Don't go north. Do the quest in this order - left hand, right
hand, heart, left foot, her stomach, intestines, right foot, head. To
get out of her body, go north. The location of the Magi respectively -
second finger from the left, index finger, centre, big toe, bottom,
bottom, little toe, centre. A random number of Phagocytes will be guarding
the final Magi in Ki's head. If you win, you gain the Fire, Ice,
Defence, Thunder, Speed, Poison and Mana Magi back from her body.

-WORLD 4-

~APOLLYON'S WORLD~

You'll notice I'm using the original title of the god; the Japanese
give him the name "Apollyon" meaning Apollo the Destroyer. Go up the
beanstalk and enter world 4. Below is Apollo's palace and Lynn's Town
is north. Apollyon hands out the Defence Magi and sets you a riddle:
"One is where wind blows underground
One is where flame burns underwater
One is where darkness shines brightly."
These are the three locations of the other Magi.

~UNDERSEA VOLCANO~

In the south is Port Town, inhabited by sea folk, a quaint town that
reminds me strongly of FFL1. You can walk to the Undersea Volcano from
the south pier. The volcano is dangerous because the lava will drain HP.
On floor 1 take the south exit (archway). There are 2 chests on floor 3
to the south, a Gold sword and a Power drink. On floor 4 there is another
chest in the middle (Fire) and a healing pool on the island on the left,
perfect for levelling. On floor 5 there are 3 chests containing Fire,
Poison and True Eye Magi...no boss? Hooray! Leave via the north exit.

~THE CAVE OF LIGHT~

The cave is southeast of the north town. You need the True Eye Magi to
see inside it. Go east to floor 2. You have to go all around floor 2
clockwise to get to the right exit. There is a south exit on floor 3
and a chest containing a Power drink in the top righthand corner. There
are 2 chests on floor 4 containing a Giant gauntlet and Thunder spell.
Cross the bridge and go north on floor 5, but don't miss the chest on
the left which contains a Laser sword. There is 1 chest on the next floor
(Revenge sword) and a south exit. On floor 7 there are three chests
containing Magi - Thunder, Mana and Ice. Then go out of the north exit
on the right. No boss! Things are too quiet...it's strange.

~MOUNTAIN CAVES~

North of Lynn's Town. There are two entrances. The south entrance
leads to treasure, Hermes boots, the north one is the main entrance.
In North Mountain Cave there is a chest on floor 3 in the left corner
(Rocket) and an exit on the right. Take the south exit on floor 4 and
go down for a chest on the left (Elixir). Go south to meet Lynn and
fight Dunatis the robot, who is blocking the exit. Defeat him and you
get three Magi and an X-Cure. Afterwards you are warped back to
Lynn's town where Dad pretends to be her father.

-WORLD 5-

~GUARDIANS' BASE TOWN~

This town WILL be destroyed, so you can and should make the most of its
shops and nearby monsters. When you are ready, play the Heroic Tune on
the Jukebox. You will immediately be arrested. Dad will come to your
rescue. After you have rested the base will be attacked. Defeat an Ogre
on floor 3 to get the Power Magi. Dad will join you on the next floor.
Defeat the Manticore to get Speed Magi and a Magician on floor 1 to get
Defence Magi. Next to the Pillar of Sky, defeat the Commando to get Fire
Magi. After that, head down the beanstalk some more and you'll find
shops either side of the escalator; you will find Ninja World, where
Lynn is held captive. Defeat the Ninja to get the Poison Magi. You
will be warped back to Lynn's Town, where Lynn gives you the Thunder
Magi. Head back up the beanstalk.

~UNDERGROUND WATERWAY~

Venus' City has to be the best level in the game! Loads of shops, items
etc. It's great! But head out and west through the trees to find
Antony's village. A frog tells you that there is an underground waterway
in Venus City's north wall. Go there and take the south exit to floor 1,
but don't miss the chest (Speed potion). On floor 2 go south again.
There is a chest nearby (the excellent Psi sword). A Hermit Crab will be
blocking the way. If you defeat him you get a key. You can now open the
doors on floors 2-4. There is a chest room on floor 3, but the bottom
right chest is a trap. The other chests contain Power, Speed and Mana
Magi. Similarly, there is a chest room on floor 4, but again the bottom
right chest is a trap. The other chests contain Defence, Ice and
Thunder Magi. There are 2 chests on floor 5 (Giant's helmet, Elixir).
Now you're inside Venus's palace. Talk to the girl, Flora.

~VOLCANO~

Enter the newly-born volcano (not another one!) The exit to the third
floor, incidentally, is in the top right island, forcing you to walk
into a sea of lava (oh, joy). Go left, left to floor 5 where there is a
chest in the south (Flame Sword) and another two on floor 6 (Fire gun,
Mage Staff). Walk through the lava to the south exit (YUK) and there
are 4 chests in the southeast corner of floor 7 (Flame shield, Magi),
not to mention a HP recovery pool, should you wish to train.

~THE WEDDING~

After that, a moth in Venus Town will tell you that Nils and Flora are
about to be married. Leon charges in and he gives you some Magi. After
a scene, you fight Venus. If you win, you get the Power, Speed, Mana,
Fire, Ice, Thunder, Poison and Aegis Magi.

VENUS: 2500 HP

After that, you can leave World 5.

-WORLD 6-

~DRAGON RACE CIRCUIT~

There is a town ahead. Visit Apollyon, who is in a house on the left.
Then choose a Dragon from the stables in town. The most expensive Dragon
is the fastest. During the race you will meet a group of Adamants.
Once they are defeated you will get a Defense Magi. Then you will face some
Tortoises. Once they are defeated, you will get a Speed Magi. The third
battle is a group of Lamias; they will give you a Mana Magi. Finally,
defeat about 4 Watchers to win the Defense Magi. THIS RACE IS HARD! But
Apollyon is nasty, isn't he?

~EDO~

There are two towns in the middle of the map, the forest town is smaller.
One is Edo. You can get to the Shogun's fortress from the left of the map.
There are loads of levels and equipment to be had! When you are ready,
go to Edo's north bridge to fight the Hatamoto gang. Then visit the
forest town and see Hana in the nearest house. She is investigating the
murder of her father in connection with Echigoya's banana smuggling.
Explore the town and return to see Hana. Now go to Echigoya's shop in
Edo town.

~SHIPYARD~

Then go to the Shipyard in the south. On the way, Hana's
turtle friend (Kame in the English version) talks to you. Board the ship
using the middle pier and go in the middle exit. On this level you
will find a chest in the south (Laser gun). On the third level is another
chest (Tank, yay!) on the left side, and another further right (Hecate
boots). You will meet a man at the end, Hana's friend (Taro in English,
a ronin in Japanese). Head for a little building west of the Ship-
yard and the judge will move to Hana's house. Ronin brings in Hana's
turtle friend, so head to Echigoya's shop in Edo and go behind the
counter. You will hear a conversation between the Shogun and Echigoya. In
this battle you will fight a large group of Hatamotos and Echigoya. After
that, the ronin will join you as your fourth(?) NPC. It's time to go to
the Shogun's fortress.

~SHOGUN'S FORTRESS~

Incredibly tough here, so make sure you have everything you want. Attack
the guards first. Go north. There are 3 chests on floor 3 (Ninja gauntlet,
Body drink, Missile) on the right. Then go to the left corner and into
floor 4, where there is a chest in the middle (Dragon sword). Go left and
into the next floor; don't forget the chest (Dragon shield). Then head
north, north. There is a Samurai Bow on floor 5. Defeat the Shogun you
meet, and then defeat his father, the Magnate. Once he is defeated you
will get the Ice, Fire, Thunder and Poison Magi and 30800 Gold Pieces.

SHOGUN: 2000 HP
MAGNATE: 6000 HP

I've heard you can fight the fish statues on the roof. You can now leave
World 6.

~THE NASTY DUNGEON~

The dungeon is found on the way to World 7 and you HAVE to get the Pegasus
Magi from the entrance. It works the same way as the Door.

"This dungeon is mean and nasty..." For the persevering adventurer who wants
to re-enter this dungeon and make an ABSOLUTE FORTUNE, read this section.
For sane people, skip down to "Valhalla Palace".

The "Nasty Dungeon" has a total of 8 floors and there is no fast way
in or out. The whole thing has to be done on foot, so give items to your
party if you don't want several journeys. I have the maps in front of
me, but you'll have to make do with directions!

B1) Four chests: Power Potion, Body drink, Dragon armor, Ogre axe.
Go clockwise south. You'll finally see 2 tunnels. The right leads to a
pair of chests, the other leads to a grilled archway and a chest on the
left. Go left out of the grille and take the second path leading north,
then go up the first path to the exit.

B2) Three chests: Magic drink, Catclaw, Vulcan.
Go around the room clockwise and you'll encounter a chest through the
third grille, on the right. Go right through the next 2 archways to find
2 more chests in the north corridor. Then return and leave down the
right exit.

B3) Four chests: Elixir, Laser gun, Jyudo, Dragon sword.
Go down the first south corridor to get to 2 chests. Go back and walk
down the second south corridor. Turn left to get to 2 more chests, then
come back out and walk round south all the way up to the exit.

B4) Four chests: Tank, Missile, Tent, Dragon helmet.
This level has some good stuff. There's a corridor leading down. Go
second right for a chest and first left to get to another chest. Take
the second and third left to get to the third and fourth chests.
Then leave down the third right passage.

B5) Five chests: Muramasa, Wizard's staff, Selfix armor, Defend sword,
Samurai bow.
Go right. Take the upper passage to get to one chest, then go back down
the lower passage for other chests; the first 2 in the first left, the
other two in the lower left passage. Then go all the way back to the
entrance and leave using the south exit opposite.

B6) Four chests: ParaSuit, Psy gun, Vampic sword, Arthur armor.
Go right and head south to get three chests. Then take the middle stairs
and there is another chest on the right. The exit is on the left.

B7) Four chests: Sun sword, Karate, Hyper cannon, Tent.
Go down and right, then right through the gap and south. This will take
you down a long, winding passage to three chests. Then come back through
the gap and head up. This will take you along another passage past 1
more chest. Keep going to reach the exit.

B8) Four chests: Flare, Glass sword, Nuke bomb, Gungnir spear.
Go right (down is a dead end). Go down left to reach a chest. Then go
the middle way to reach the south chest. Come back and go right all
the way to end to get another chest. Take the other south tunnel to
reach a chest in the south, then turn right for the exit.

-World 7-

~VALHALLA PALACE~

At the end of the beanstalk you'll find a place that is made of
clouds. Here you can cross the bridge to reach Valhalla palace in
the east. Get the chest on the first floor (Defend sword) and go
through the north door. There is a chest on floor 4 on the right
side (Wizard staff) above the exit. On floor 5 is a chest in the
south (Rune Axe), while the exit is above the entrance. Get the
chest on floor 6 (Flare) and go right. Go clockwise to the centre
exit and you will meet the god Odin. Use the Gungnir or other
things you have found (such as the Rune axe) and he will fall. You
will get Power, Mana, Speed, Fire, Ice, Thunder, Poison and Masamune
Magi. Yes, Odin also may drop a Gungnir spear.

ODIN: 3700 HP
ODINCROW: 669 HP
SLEIPNIR: ?

You may now go right and leave Valhalla. The Pillar of Sky is
in the north.

~LAST TOWN~

You'll emerge in some trees. Go north and you will run across the
meanie Apollyon.

Apollyon: (wait for it) 25000 HP
Minion: 5000 HP

You end up giving Apollyon all your Magi, so don't try too hard.
Dad will join and you then head south to the final town.

~EVIL DUNGEON~

Give dad some stuff, e.g. Defend sword, Vulcan, Battle armor and
a Heal rod. All your characters should get more than 650 HP by this
stage. Equip characters with Heal rods, which heal a whole party,
and armor which boosts defence - Dragon helmets, Arthur or Battle
armor, Ninja gauntlets, Hecate boots. My main character Jake had
999 HP at this point, with about 60 defence and 35 strength. Use
Laser guns, Vulcans and Tanks. If you have a monster, turn it into
a Nymph. You can also buy some Doors.


FFL 2 has no Boss Killer feature. Basically, most of the saws you
get in the game are useless and you cannot kill the bosses in
one hit.

The final dungeon is south of the town. There are two exits in the
middle. The right leads to a small room with a chest (Karate),
the left leads to floor 2. Go left on this floor for a chest
(Sun sword) and right for the exit. There are more chests on the
right-hand side of many floors here: floor 4 (Arthur armor), floor
5 (Psi gun), floor 6 (ParaSuit), floor 7 (Tent), floor 9
(Excalibur) and floor 10 (Nuke bomb). Save on floor 11 to
face the Death Machine. Make good use of the Heal staffs. If you
win, you will get the Heart Magi from the chest. You can equip it.

DEATH MACHINE: 10000 HP

Exit north and head for Apollyon's palace to the north of the final
town. You will see it right in the middle of the Pillars of Sky.

~APOLLYON'S PALACE~

Apollyon will not hit you for about six turns, so hammer into him
while you can. Use Laser guns, which he hates, the Glass sword and
Whirl ability, as well as Gungnir.

APOLLYON (monster): 25000 HP (maybe less in UK version)

When you defeat him he will explode, so make sure someone in the
party, and Dad, survives. Next, Dad will leave and the goddess Isis
will join your party. When you are ready, enter the door where
Apollyon was standing. There are five levels of the central Shrine
where you can get the Seven Sword from Haniwas. There is a boss on the
fifth floor whose meat will really transform your monsters.

TIANLUN: 2000 HP

There is a boss on the seventh floor whose meat will really
transform your monsters.

FENRIR THE WOLF (tiger, surely?): 2500 HP

Find the square panels on floor 8 and Isis will attack one
Arsenal while you are sent to attack the other. I'll have to be
vague here, as I've never gotten this far!

ARSENAL: 10000 HP

As far as I know you have to take out the laser cannons 1 at a
time while attacking the body of the Arsenal. Use Heal rods here
as well. You can get back to the world when you defeat him by
taking the left exit in the area.

The credits start.

3. Notes

I made this FAQ using information from the official Japanese guide
and so all HP amounts are official figures! For more information on
the Sa Ga world on GB, visit
fantasyanime.com or
Wikipedia.
