These are some of the most frequently asked questions about Final
Fantasy Legend II from SquaresoftUs Game Counselors.


1.  What is the best character combination for my party?

Two humans and two mutants; two humans, a mutant and a robot; or
one human, one mutant, one robot and one monster.

2.  Where is the Micron so I can go into KiUs body?

On the table in the top building of the Giant town. To get on the
table walk up the cabinets on the right side of the table.

3.  I am in the ShogunUs World. I have done everything, but I
canUt go anywhere. What do I do?

You must talk to the smuggler in the store in Edo (West town). To
do this you must walk around the counter and talk to him. He will
then tell you where to go next.

4.  Where is the Seven Sword?

After you defeat Apollo in the Celestial Temple, you will be able
to find the Seven Sword. To get the sword you must find the
Hanawas that you encountered in the center of the Earth. After
defeating several of them you will receive the sword on your
list
.

5.  How do I defeat Apollo?

Location:  Inside the Celestial Temple Hit Points:  15000 hp Tips
to defeat him:  Make sure that your party is built up to 850 hp.
Fight Apollo with the Flare spell, Excaliber, Gungnir, Samurai
Bow and the Tank Gun.

6.  How do I find the Guardian Base?

a.  Go to the shops and buy everything you need. The shops will
be destroyed after you enter the inner base.

b.  Go to the Pub and play the Heroic Tune on the jukebox by
pressing up and down to scroll through the list of songs to find
the correct one. This will allow you to enter the inner base.

c.  Talk to the guard to get out of the jail cell.

d.  Work your way down 2 floors and enter the door at the top of
the screen.

e.  Talk to your father and you will go to sleep.

f.  When you wake the base will have been attacked.

g.  Work your way out of the base, fighting the guards along the
way. Your father will join your party.

h.  As you go to leave the world you will be told that Lynn has
been captured.

i.  Go back to the pillar of the sky at the top of the town to
find the next world.
