Date: Tue, 19 Aug 1997 18:25:24 -0700
From: ldctk <locke@napanet.net>

The LordLocke FAQ of Final Fantasy Legend II  V 2.0


	Hello all you happy people!  Welcome to the first version of the
FF Legend II faq.  I know that a good guide to this game is hard to find,
and an accurate one is even harder.  But never fear!  LordLocke has torn
this game apart, and pieced it back together, just for all you happy
people (Besides, 2 weeks of 8-10 hour days in a van just begs for this
kind of activity.)  So, away we go

Disclaimer

 You MAY:
-Download this FAQ for personal use
-Put this faq on your web site, given that you give me credit for it,
and don't alter it in any form.
-Give me cash, praise, and call me your master (Work, slave!)

You MAY NOT!:
-Alter this faq for public referance
-Publish in written form without my permission
-Use any part of this faq without my permission
-Flame me because you don't like Locke

Thank you!


NEW IN V. 2.0!
-------------
 THE BEST TEAM UPS section added
 Changed the boss to the Next-to-Last boss (forgot about the Mech...droid..
um....whatever it is.....)
Now on to the meat!

SETTING OUT
-----------
 This section involves the 8 character types

Humans (Male and Female specimens):  Humans are the best fighters of the
lot.  Humans gain HP and abilities the fastest, their weapon skills are
second-to-none, and can make equal use of both strength and speed weapons.
They do, however, have a weakness to magic, both in the inability to cast
it, and gain defences against it.  The female gains HP slower, but gets
Speed faster than the male.  Both gain strength at the same rate.

Mutants (Male and Female specimens): Mutants are the equivilant of mages.
They start the game with a hit-all magical attack (blizzard for the male,
flame for the female), and gain mana quickly.  They also gain enough speed
to make use to any speed weapons you can find.  Their strength, however,
is low compared to humans, and strength weapons are all but ruled out.
Give these guys a couple of spell books, and they're ready to rock.  They
gain hp slowly, but their speed help them go first in combat.  The female
gains speed faster than the male, while the male gets mana faster.

Robot:  This is the oddball of the bunch.  This guy dosn't level up like the
humanoids, or change form like the monsters.  He gains hp and stats by
"upgrading" him, or equiping him.  He is not restricted to just equip 1
helmet or gauntlet, but as many as he can hold.  Try and keep him fully
equipped, too.  He often has the highest defence of the team, and even if
he has less hp, put him in the front, as he will have about 5-10 more
defence than the others.  His guns are just as good as magic, as most take
out a group at a time.  This guy can't handle a spell, however, so be ready
to cure during bosses.

Monsters: (Slime, Red D, and Imp):  The monster's starting class  dosn't
matter much, but if you really care, the Slime is a fighter, the Red D is
an offensive mage, and the Imp puts the enemy to sleep.  Anyways, these
guys eat meat to "level up", changing form.  If this form is for the better
or for the worse, is unknown.  THese guys, while possible powerhouses, are
more often than not unable to dish out enough damage to get the job done.
Worse still, they can become weak, first world creatures at the worst
times.


THE BEST TEAM UPS!
------------------

2 Humans, 2 Mutants:  This team gives you 2 weapon fighters and 2 magical
warriors.....between those too, plus the humans tendancy to strength and the
mutants tendancy to speed, this covers all the bases.  However, this team
eats gold like nothin' else.  Because the only re-charge ability is the
mutants natural magic, you'll always be strapped for cash.

2 Humans, 1 Mutant, 1 Robot:  My favorite team, this group can do it all.
The humans have high attack, the mutant has magic, and the robot can take
out tons o' enemies with his guns....cheaper than the previous team, as all
the robot's weapons "recharge."  Just be wary of enemies resistant to
physical attack, as only the one mutant can do much more than attack.

1 Human, 2 Mutants, 1 Robot:  Similar to the above team, just 2 mutants
instead of 2 humans.  Treat accodingly.

1 Human, 1 Mutant, 1 robot, 1 monster:  This team gives a little of every-
thing.  Just be wary, as with 1 true spellcaster (the monster is just too
random) this team may run into trouble later in the game....cheap as hell,
though.

POWER UP!
---------

	"Leveling up" in this game is kind of strange, and quite a hassle.
Instead of gaining a level after you earn so much exp, or after you defeat
so many enemies, you gain stats, hp, and magic randomly.  The only
thing you have to do for each are shown below

HP: Be alive at the end of combat
Str: Hit one enemy with a strength weapon (Chances of gaining str better
if the blow kills the enemy)
Speed: Hit one enemy with a speed weapon (Chances of gaining speed better
if the blow kills the enemy)
Mana: Cast spells or hit one enemy with a psi weapon
Spells/Strengths/Weaknesses:These are random, but casting spells increases
the chance of geting a spell, fighting helps develop a strength or
weakness

	Even though you should spend some time leveling up as soon as you
enter a new world, there are 4 spots especially important to level up:

First World: Level up after you finish the cave with Mr. S
Ashura's World: Level up after you find the hidden town and the tower
Apollo's World (The first one): Level up after seeing Apollo
Venus's world: Level up after you find the town of the Dirty Ones

Leveling up at these times and places increase your chances of being
able to take on harder enemies, and keeps you from needing to run, which,
in turn, allows you to level up more.  Just keep leveling up at these times
until the enemies are drastically easy.

OVERWORLD TATICS
----------------

	-Always find all the towns and important places early.  This will
keep you from wasting money in towns on weaker items, let you know where to
go when it is time to find those Magi, and keeps you up to date on
information from both towns and "dungeons"
	-If you find the overland enemies hard, then you need to level up.
These guys are noticably easier than their dungeon-dwelling breathen.
	-No town is more than a moment away on any of the worlds, so
don't run unless you'll die if you don't.
	-Do not use your strongest weapons on overworld enemies.  Quite often
a weaker weapon will suffice. (I've used long swords as late as Apollo's
second world)
	-When all else fails, just wander aimlessly.  You'll eventually find
a town to heal yourself.

DUNGEON TATICS
--------------

	-Don't be afraid to use magic, especially the temp. magic of the
mutants.  When the spells rotate in, your uses refill as a bonus.
	-Always carry at least one cure book if you have a mutant.
	-If you have a monster, try to make him into a creature that
can cast spells BEFORE entering the dungeon.
	-Never enter a dungeon if you are unsure of yourself.
	-Always have the best equipment avaliable before entering a dungeon.
	(Excepton: You don't need the Giant gear before entering Ki's body,
	but it DOES help)
        -Never save when in the dungeon except when getting ready to face
one of the gods.


THE GODS
--------

	While the regular enemies and sub-bosses are push-overs if you've
leveled up, the gods are always tough. Here's a rundown on how to beat them

Ashura:This is pretty easy, just make sure to have your strongest weapons
and armor are equipped.  Don't bother with magic, as quite often, weapons do
more damage

Venus: Now things heat up.  Venus is extreamly strong, and can stump for a
while.  Even though she has no weaknesses, she is strong against fire and
ice.  Only thunder works, so give her a bad hair day if you have Thunder.
Otherwise, just attack with your strongest.  Whatever mutant has the highest
mana get the cure spell book.  If you have no mutants, than use LOTS of cures.
She also likes to confuse you, so be ready to counter that.

Apollo: This guy is amazingly a lot like Venus, except he knows Flame, and
is vulnerable against ice, not thunder.  Make sure to keep the leader at
good health, or else you'll need a new one real fast.

Odin:  Simple.  Pop quiz: In 6 turns, Odin will kill you.  If you kill him in
less than 6 turns, you fight the next-to final boss. WHAT DO YOU DO?  Really
 just attack.  Magic does little or nothing, so just pray you put in enough
 time with speed or strength

 The Next-To-Final Boss:  He is immune to magic, but BOY, can he dish it out.
Try and keep everyone healthy.  A good tatic is to put 2 characters on heal
duty, and the other 2 attack the guy.  If you can finish this one fast, than
 you will win.  Not too much more you can do against this guy :)


The Final Boss:  Well, spells and physical attacks do about the same:
VERY LITTLE!  Just start praying your leveling up puts you into an area
where you can do a decent amount of damage  (My guys, 2 humans, 1 mutant,
and a robot, all with maxed to nearly maxed out stats where it counts,
looked similar to when they faced Venus. Terrible :) Curing is a must, as 2
attacks will take out all but the toughest of your team.  Suprisingly, the
Robot did the most damage with it's guns.......maybe that means.....oh well.
....despite what I just said...this is an easy battle.  You've come this far
...he has very few hp, making his high defence a counter to his low hp.
If you can nail him hard, he'll be gone by the end of round 3.

THE FUTURE
----------

Well, how is this FAQ?  Is everything accurate?   Have any more questions?
Do your ears hang low?  Tell me!  E-mail me at locke@napanet.net with imput
Hopefully, there will be a version 2.0 on the way soon!

Here are some things that I am looking for:

A logo (Anyone?)
Someone to help me expand later versions (This is rather breif for this game)
Regular enemy tactics (Anyone out there have any better ideas than ATTACK!)
Corrections on my boss lists (I know I had to screw somthing up in there)
An Item list ( I'll have one soon, but it's good to know someone out there
likes me)
A meat chart: (What turns what into what? WHAT?)

THE FINAL WORD
--------------

	I thank you for reading this, and I hope you enjoy it.  I have a few
ideas stewing in my mind.  MAybe if you demand, I'll obay >:)  Here's my faq
 idea list:
Diablo
Lufia 2: The Anicent Cave
Yoshi's Island
The Ol' Classics: A collection of FAQ's on some of the best NES games
(All mine, of course.....too many people get uppidy when their faq, even
when given credit, appears anywhere but under their own file.)
Dare to Compare: A look and comparison of the big 6 arcade fighting series
(SF, VF, Tekken, Marvel, MK, DarkStalkers)
War2: How to rock your friends (Cheesy, hilarious tatics that REALLY work...
most of the time)
Why 2D beats 3D ANYDAY!
and finally...(long list this time)
FINAL FANTASY 3 BOSS FAQ! (Whoo boy.....thats a lotta bosses)

SOME WORDS TO LIVE BY
---------------------
Just shoot it!- Peppy Hare, StarFox 64
You're supposed to hit me if you are going to win- LordLocke (me) after
smashing the 8th Eddy player in a row with Paul in Tekken 3
Up yours!- The current American Motto
I am not a crook- Richard Nixon, less than a month before he got kicked out
of the White House for that WhiteWater thing.
I gotta go play Ramma 3 on ESNES- Ryoga, a #Square op dragon.dal.net,
giving TRUE words to live by (Ain't that right, Ryoga >:)
						-Matthew Karr (LordLocke)
						locke@napanet.net
