Version 1.0. Don't expect a 2.0. Any questions can be sent to
vicstQvQnson@mailQxcitQ.com. Just change the Qs to Es to get
around a spamblock.

I play this with a human of each gender, a male mutant and a monster.
Some of the advice on equipping objects is tailored to that.

Should you want more info, read LordLocke's excellent FAQ that covers
characters. This is solely a walkthrough.

NORTH CAVE

First, I would recommend keeping Mr. S in the party until he runs
out of attacks. This can help your party build up the hit points,
other statistics and gold pool. This might be a good time to mention
a little trick that can be used to gain such attribute points. If,
in your first battle, you gain some sort of points (hit, strength,
mana, agility), save your game an turn off your Gameboy. When it is
back on, load the saved game and get into the fight again. Use the
same methodology to beat the monsters you encounter, and you will
experience the same (or, in the case of hit points, sometimes greater)
gain. It takes time, but I had one of my characters with the max. of
hit points (999) before even visting Ki. Short digression, back to
the cave in question.

Follow the path, the first bridge you see leads to a bronze shield and
a cure potion. Continue along the path, and a path off to the right
leads to a hammer and a bow. Destroy the BabyWyrm at the end of the
tunnel. Stay around until Mr.S' abilities run out, then exit the
cave. Mr. S will depart. Walk North to the town.

NORTH CAVE TOWN

Talk to the people. Visit the store, and buy a second rapier and
long sword. Go to the armour store, and buy some bronze helmets
and gauntlets. Leave and head to the west.

FIRST WORLD

Head west and slightly north to reach Ki's Temple. She will heal
you, and give you directions to the relics. Head south to reach the
area, and follow her directions from the big rock to reach the area
in question.

SOUTHERN RELICS

Follow the paths. After heading up to the second floor, walk to the
right to get a whip. Then, follow the path around to the opposite
corner to reach the third floor. On the fourth floor, walk past the
first door (it only leads to empty chests). Ditto for the second
door on the north wall. Take the stairs up. On floor five, the left
path leads to a cure potion. The right continues onward. Continue
along the path. You will enter a room with three chests, with
two people raiding said chests. Chase after them. Ignore the chests,
because they are empty. Go through the door, and you will see the
raiders by one door, but a door before them. Enter that first
door, and get 3 MAGI. Then, chase the raiders. Follow them outside.
They have been waylaid. They are both dead, their MAGI stolen by
Ashura. Return to Ki. She will join your party, and you head to
Ashura's base.

FIRST WORLD (2)

The next town is NW of Ki's temple. You probably can't afford any
new weapons at this point. Rest at the inn and move on to Ashura's
Base.

ASHURA'S BASE

Touching any of the visible enemies here will result in your being
attacked. Random attacks, they are still hovering over your head.
Ki's Thunder attack will help here. After going around the first
bend, you will see a door to the north. It will take you to Level 2.
Just follow the path here. On the third floor, the chest in the NW
corner of the large room contains a speed potion. Move along now,
nothing more to see here. Go right or left on the next floor. It
doesn't matter, they both lead to the same place. Walk around the
furniture on the next floor. The chest contains an axe. Continue
along the corridor. The boss here is the rhino. It is weak against
ice. Ki's Thunder spell also works quite well. Leave the collapsing
castle, picking up the MAGI as you exit. Head North from there. Ki
will depart once you reach the pillar of sky. Continue on to your
next stop:

ASHURA'S DESERT

Enter the town. Pick up silver helmets for your humans and mutants.
This town is no safe haven. You can get attacked here. Once you
leave, walk around the mountained borders to this world. When are
directly under a small clearing on the south side of this world, go
up. Visit the town and heal if you want, then go to the tower.

ASHURA'S TOWER

The first two floors are pretty straight-forward. Follow the given
path. Nothing of note on the third either. A sabre can be found in
the 4th floor chest. If you have a female human, give it to her.
On the fifth floor, you will fight a Woodman. He shouldn't be too
much trouble. Obviously, fire works nicely on a wooden creature.
When you win, Mask will join the party. He is unarmed at this point,
but will find his weapons as soon as you reach the 6th floor. That
is everything of interest on this small level. Up to 7. The chest
there contains a colt. Might be nice for the mutant in your party.
Walk through 8, picking up the silver shield in the chest. I find
shields (save Aegis, which we won't see for quite a while) to be
useless. I sell them in the shops. They might be useful if you have
a robot in your party for raising its stats. On the 9th and last floor,
the first staircase you see has two chests on either side. Left nets you
a magic potion. Power is on the right. Up the next stairs, a silver
helmet is on the left (you should already have the suitable party
members decked out in those, so sell it when you get the chance). The
right has a battle sword. Perfect for a male human. Move forward to
fight Ashura. Unload on him with your weapons. Mask used a hammer,
while my humans used the Sabre and Battle swords respectively. My
mutant fired a Colt, while my monster (a Raven, FWIW) used a beak
attack.

When you win, you will hear some distressing news about Ki. You will
get transported back to her. Enemies have entered her body! You need
the micron to get in and save her. The Micron is available in Giant's
World, the third place you have to go through in your journey through
the pillar.

GIANTS WORLD

GIANT CITY

Go to the city and visit the cafe. The barkeep will tell you about
Johnny, the only other customer in the bar. At first, Johnny will deny
anything. Go to the entrance of thie city. Go to the right near the
exit. Follow the path counterclockwise. After a quick conversation
with Dad, slip into the back entrance to the store. Confront the
clerk, and he will spill the beans baout Johnny. Return to the cafe,
and you will find Johnny to be much more talkative. Follow his
directions, and enter the old giant town.

THE OLD GIANT TOWN

There are four buildings here. The third one from the top contains
two MAGI. Use those two to enter the top building. Get the two
chests (Geta boot and gold shield respectively). Go to the NE corner
of the room, and climb the bookcase to get the Micron. You now
have two options: Return to Ki, or fight random monsters to earn
enough money for Giant goods. Take your pick, but the Giant goods
increase your strength. I usually try to get enough Giant gauntlets
to equip my party.

KI

Back in the first world, walk straight up to Ki. You have to retrieve
six MAGI that are in her body. There is one in each foot, hand as
well as one in the intestines(?) and the heart. Blizzard and ice
work well on the internal creatures such as plasma and grippe. After
you have retrieved those, go to the top of the head. Walk around.
Defeat the Phagocyts using ice spells.

Bonus note: If you have a monster in the party, don't eat any of
the internal creatures. Unless you lake turning into a first level
creature. Your next stop will be in Apollo World (1).

APOLLO WORLD

The first thing you will see if you make a few steps to the south is
Apollo's Castle. Head in, and go straight ahead. Apollo is nice
enough to give you a MAGI. He gives you a riddle, defining three
locations where you can find others. Start with the southernmost
option.

NEPTUNE/SUBMARINE VOLCANO

Walk south of the town off the pier. You can stop in to buy some
Gold helmets, if you wish.

Follow the path, noting that every step you take on a bubbling square
subtracts one hit point. Unforunately, this is unavoidable. After
walking down a hallway and seeing a passage to the north and a path
south, elect to go north. The first two chests you see contain a
gold sword (human male) and a power potion. A fire book is in the
next chest you encounter. To the left of that is a glowing spot that
recovers your hit points. Go there before heading off through the
northern tunnel. Continue north in the next room, as there is nothing
down the side passages. Get the 3 MAGI and leave. Return to the
town and heal at the inn. Head east for your next segment.

CAVE OF LIGHT

You need the True Eye MAGI to see properly in here. Said MAGI is
available in the submarine volcano/Neptune. Follow the given path
around. Go up the stairs and cross the bridge. Continue along until
you reach two tunnels on either side of another. A power potion
is to the right. Left takes you further into the cave. The next
chect contains a giant gauntlet. I am already decked out with them, so
I sell it. Continue clockwise to find a Thunder book, then head up
to the next level by continuing walking in the same direction. Go
up the stairs, and down the first flight of steps you see. The
broken bridge has a Laser sword at the end of it. Cross the full
bridge, and continue up the stairs. 3 paths should appear before you.
The far right yields a revenge sword. The far left one is empty, and
the middle one sends you onward. I cannot recall using the revenge
sword at any point, so you might want to sell that as well. 4 paths
when you emerge. MAGIs lie in the far left, 2nd from the left and
the far right passages. The second from the right exits the cave.

DUNATIS TOWN

In the NE portion of this town (across several bridges) lies an
unkarked house. Enter it, and learn that Lyn has been lost in the
Cave of Mountain to the north.

SOUTHERN CAVE

This is optional. But, you can find the agility-increasing Hermes
boot in here. I'd go pick it up. Exit that cave and go north.

CAVE OF MOUNTAIN

The cave is pretty straight-forward. Head S, then East when you reach
junctions on the second floor. Continue north until you see 2 tunnels.
Left to a Rocket. Continue on through the right tunnel. It doesn't
matter which path you take off the next tunnel. They both end up in
the same location. Go down the Super Happy Fun Slide. Go east at the
bottom and get the Elixier that Lyn was looking for. Go right. You
will meet up with Lynn, who will join. Sadly, she couldn't fight
her way out of a wet paper bag if you spotted her a broadsword. Fight
through Dunatis like a hot knife through butter. The human male
used the Gold Sword, the female the Laser. The mutant fired a Rocket,
while my monster (a Medusa) used her tail. It shouldn't be too hard.

Back at Lynn's there is a family reunion. You are stunned to learn
that your dad is also Lynn's father. In disgust, you vow to continue
on. Head on to:

GUARDIAN WORLD

Make sure you have everything you need from the stores, as they will
soon become a non-factor. Head to the cafe, and play Heroic Tune on
the jukebox. You will be arrested, since you are considered spies. Your
dad will arrange your freedom. Exit the cell. Follow the corridor
clockwise, and go up the stairs. Continue to the top level. Walk
north once you get there. Go through the door, and talk to Dad. During
your rest, the base will be attacked. Fight your way to the bottom
floor. Dad will join partway through. Exit the cafe, and return to the pillar. Defeat the commando. Note: If any of the visible opponents give
meat after the battle, eat it! Go forward to the next world.

NINJA WORLD

Simple. Exit and head to the left. Say so long to dad. Lynn wil join.
You will return her to Apollo World, after beating the Ninja. After
the reunion, move on through the Pillar of Sky to Venus World.

VENUS WORLD

Walk through the gates to Venus' world. (You can't exit to the outside
just yet). Take the moving sidewalks into the place. Chat with Venus,
and she will grant you permission to leave the city. There are some
good stores here, so explore the town. Talk to Nils & Flora, who are on
either side of the palace walls before exiting.

DIRTY OUTSIDE

Visit the village (near the Western wall of Venus town) that is
supposedly dirty. Talk to Leon, and then the residents of the NW
building. They will tell you how to reach the sewers.

THE SEWERS

Follow the path given. A speed potion is in the first chest you see.
AS you continue, a path will appear on a north wall. The chest has
a Psi sword in it. The door will lead into a fight with a Hermit
crab. It has about 400 or so hit points. Thunder works quite nicely
against it. Defeat it and get a key. If you have a monster in your
party, note that eating the meat would be helpful. The creature will
regenerate each time you leave the room, so return if needed. I would
advise trying to become a phantom through the meat. Continue on, and
open the first door you come across with a key. There are four chests
within. 3 contain MAGI, the 4th contains a really tough monster. Avoid the chest in the lower right corner. Continue through the sewers and
you will come across another door. Again, 4 chests. As before, avoid
the one in the lower right. Continue along the path. When you have the
opportunity to step into the sewer water, do so. Walk left and
you will find a submerged chest with an Elixier in it. Return to the
path. The next chest visible has a Giant Helmet in it. Move over to
the door you see to exit the sewers. You will emerge in Venus' palace.

RETURN TO THE PALACE

Talk with Venus, then Flora. A volcano will emerge from the ground.
Exit the city, and go to your next journey.

VOLCANO RUINS

Follow the path. The lava has the same result as it did in Neptune's
submarine volcano. -1 hit point. Ignore the fact that someone (Leon)
is following you through the ruins. There is a hit regeneration
square once you reach level 2. Just continue north a few steps to
get to it. As you continue along the path, you will reach an area
where a pier leads out into a lava area with a chest in the middle
of it. The chest holds a flame sword. The next chest along the path
has a magic potion. The two chests beside one another hold a fire
pistol and a mage staff. In the area with two piers, the northern one
leads to a flame shield, with the southern one taking you towards
the MAGI. Leon will steal one, since he wants to use it to break up
Flora and Nils' wedding.

THE CHAPEL

Heal your self at the dirty village inn. Head into the palace, and
visit the chapel. (left side of the palace) It will lead into a
fight with Venus herself. Use the laser sword (female human), the
fire pistol (mutant), touch (phantom, see Hermit info for how to
become a phantom) and a fire sword (male human). 2-3 rounds should
be plenty.

RACE WORLD

Meet with Apollo, whose castle is to the left in the town. A race is
being held for MAGI. You need to rent a dragon for this. Follow
the cafe owner's advice. Take the free, but slow dragon, should you
want to avoid battles. The faster the dragon, the more bosses you
need to face around the course. 4 for the fastest, 1 for the slowest.
Take your pick. You will win the race regardless of dragon speed,
as long as you finish.

EDO

Edo is your next stop. Head to the large central city. There is some
great stuff for sale at the weapon/armor store on the inn side of
the bridge. I recommend getting a dragon helmet or two for your party.
It is worth the effort to save up for these treasures. Cross the
bridge and brawl with the Hatamatos. After winning the first battle,
Hana will come and correct the situation. Across the bridge you
will find some slightly cheaper weapons and armor.

Leave the Central City and head off to the east. Enter the building
you are immediately facing, and meet with Hana. After a short
interlude, Hana will mention a ship. Time to return to Echigoya's
store (the combo weapon/armor place). Step behind the counter and
interrogate the clerk. He will tell you when the next shipment is due.

That is the next place you  will have to visit. The shipyard is south
of Central City.

Go to the right once you enter and talk to Kame. Walk down the dock
immediately to your right, and you will be onboard the ship. There
is nothing of note on the south deck, so walk into the visible
cabin and down to the second level. Definitely head to the south
here. There is a laser pistol for you. Then go down to the next level.
On the third deck, you will find a tank and a hectate boot. You will
meet with Hana and Taro. She informs you that the ship is full of
bananas. Hana will join and you should go to the court. The court is
SW of the docks. Hmmm. The evidence is gone. Regroup at Hana's, then
head to Echigoya's. With the clerk out of the way, walk to the
basement. Kick the arses of Echigoya and the Hatmotas, and you will
be returned to Hana's. Taro will join, and you are off to the fortress.
It is west of Central City.

EDO FORTRESS

Destroy the guards. Head clockwise around the outskirts. Pass by the
first door you see with the stairs heading up (nothing there). Go
through the double doors. Walk left. Go through some more double
doors and enter the Fortress itself. You will see two paths. Choose
the left path, and follow it to reach the second level of the
fortress. The first path you see leads up to the third level, but
there is a second one. Ignore it, though. There is nothing there.
On level 4, the path on the right reveals three chests. Ninja
gauntlets, a missile launcher and the body potion. The left path
takes you to level 5. Two paths again as you go forward. A dragon
sword is in the left path. Right leads you to level 6. A Dragon
shield is in the first treasure chest.

Walk through the doors. You will face the Sho-Gun. He has about
1500 hit points, but not much in terms of an attack. Squash him
like a bug, then learn who you real enemy is. The Magnate. Follow
him to the roof, but be sure to return to get the samurai bow,
which is one of the elite weapons in the game.

Here is how I used my party against the Magnate. The male human fired
a laser pistol, and my female human used a laser sword. My mutant
used a thunder book. The monster (still a phantom) used touch. Taro
used a Muramas.

NASTY DUNGEON WORLD

You don't have to go through this to beat the game, but it is helpful.
The sole MAGI (Pegasus, it works just like a door) is available at
the entrance. Should you want to get the goodies inside, I'll include
the walkthrough here.

NASTY - LEVEL 1

Follow the given path. You will eventually reach an area where two
paths come off of it. The one on the far right leads up to two
potions: body and power. The leftward branch along this path will merge
with the original leftward path. Taking either leftward path will
eventually lead to an archway. Going under the archway leads to Dragon Armor.
It is only up one defense point from the giant armor, without the strength
bonus. I'd skip on it, unless you want to sell it for gold, or have a robot.
Pass by the archway and continue along the given path. Again you will reach
two paths heading to the north. An orge axe is down the path that is the
furthest to the left. The closer one leads down to level 2.

NASTY - LEVEL 2

Walk along the path. The first chest contains a speed potion. You will
eventually reach a room with an archway, a passage off to the east and
a chest to the north. The chest holds a magic potion. The archway
leads to a catclaw and a vulcan. The eastern passage leads to the
third floor.

NASTY - LEVEL 3

The first set of stairs down lead to an elixier and a laser pistol.
Return to the path. Jyudo and another dragon sword lie down an western
passage. Back to the main path. Walk south along the path, and you will
eventually continue down to level 4.

NASTY - LEVEL 4

You will see a path to the east almost immediately. There is a tank
down there. Back on the main southward path, an eastward path will
be seen next. Nothing down there, so continue on. A missile can be
found down the second eastward passage. There is a tent available
down the second westward path. The third path to the east leads to
level 5, but continuing south nets a dragon helmet. As you move down
the aforementioned eastern path, it will turn to the south and another
branch will appear to the east. Nothing to the south, so head east to
head down to #5.

NASTY - LEVEL 5

The exit is straight ahead. Just continue going south. There are
some treasures off to the east, including a muramas (Northern path).
There are 4 different paths to the south. From left to right, there
is a samurai bow, a defend sword, a selfix (equip and recovers HP
after each round) and a wizard wand.

NASTY - LEVEL 6

Tougher creatures start appearing at this level. Follow the path.
Eventually you will see a path to the south. A Parasuit, a Psi
Pistol (great for mutants) and a Vampic Sword are down there. The
Parasuit replaces an entire wardrobe of armor. Return to the room
and continue west. Take the northern passage. Arthur armor is to the
east.

NASTY - LEVEL 7

Follow the path. You will soon reach a room with a second room off
to the east. Continuing north leads to a tent and the eighth floor.
Going east gets a hyper cannon, a sun sword and karate.

NASTY - LEVEL 8

Head east, as there is nothing but a dead end off to the south. You
will end up at a 4-way junction.

Go west. There will be a passage opening to the north. Continue west
to get a flare spell. Then return to the northern passage and head
along it. When a path opens to the east, continue south. Follow the
path, going south when the opportunity arises. The Glass Sword is
now yours. Go back to the path and continue to the east. You are
back at the 4-way junction.

Heading east up to where the path turns south gets a Nukebomb. Return
to where there is a branch off to the south. That path will eventually
reach a section where there is a branch off to the east. South for the
gungir spear. East? That exits the dungeon!

Just one more thing. Tell the monster you found the dungeon to be
tough. Unless you want to be transported back to the 5th level.
If that happens, uses the Pegasus MAGI or a door to exit. Should
you have neither, walk backwards from 4-1. You don't want to face
the toughest battles, do you?

VALHALLA PALACE

Back through the pillar of sky. Walk due east to get to the palace.
When you enter, there is a defend sword in the room to your left. Up
at the next floor. Take the Southern path. Walk through the small
opening to enter a room where there is a wizard wand. Go up the
stairs. Straight across in the next room. Nothing to see there. Two
rooms will be visible once you hook around the corner at the next
level. The first leads to a dragon helmet. Follow the defined path on
the next level. Go get the chest to the south if you want. It holds
a rune axe. On the next level, go across. The chest holds a flare
book. You are going to start heading down now. Walk clockwise on
the next level, and you will come across a very familiar person
(assuming you have died at some point in this game). Time to fight
Odin. This will not be easy.

A mutant should use the flare book. That should take care of the
group of Odincrows. That is assuming you worked at building up
its mana level. My monster (a gazer) fired a beam at the Slepinir.
Combined with the Flare, that should take care of Odin's amigos. MY
female human used the catclaw knife, and my male human fired a laser
pistol. After the first round, stay with the same attacks, just
use them all on Odin. 3 rounds are usually enough, but it sometimes
goes into 4.

BEYOND VALHALLA

Rush down the stairs to exit the palace. Continue through the pillar
of sky to the next world. When you reach the next world, you will face
Apollo. He wants all the MAGI, and sics his Minion on you. Use the
same technique you used with Odin to destroy the Minion. 2 rounds did
it for me.

After that, Apollo will present some of the people you have encountered
on your journey, holding them hostage for the other MAGI.You relent.
Apollo leaves, and your father re-appears. There is some good news. One
MAGI remains, and it is kindly located at the Final Dungeon. Charming.

Visit the town. Heal and whatnot. Move into the dungeon.

Note: If you get doors to travel between the worlds, make sure you have
at least one usage left if you are not in the final world! You can't
use the pillar of sky anymore, since you lack the MAGI to open any
of the doors.

FINAL DUNGEON - LEVEL 1

Go around the corner until you see a tunnel to the south. Go through it,
and there are two paths heading north. The one on the right leads to
karate. Level 2 is off to the left.

FINAL - LEVEL 2

A 3 way junction welcomes you here. Go left to find a sun sword. Right
takes you to the third level.

FINAL - LEVEL 3

Going up, you see a path to the right, and a tunnel to the north. In
the tunnel is a room that is pretty darn empty. Follow the rightward
path to move onto Level 4.

FINAL - LEVEL 4

The rightward tunnel holds Arthur armor. Continue up to 5.

FINAL - LEVEL 5

The path to the right yields a Psi Pistol. Left takes you up to 6.

FINAL - LEVEL 6

A Parasuit is off to the right. 7 is to left.

FINAL - LEVEL 7

As per usual, follow the path. When it splits, treasure is to the
right (a tent)

FINAL - LEVEL 8

Nothing to see here, just follow the path.

FINAL - LEVEL 9

Looks to be straightforward, but there is a good trick here. Walk into the
eastern or western extremes of the room. Walk through the wall, and walk
around to get the Xcalibr sword! Return to the main room and go to the
10th level.

FINAL - LEVEL 10

Nukebomb to the right at the junction. Level 11 is to the left.

FINAL - LEVEL 11

Walk straight ahead. The WarMech awaits. Have the female human use the
Catclaw, while the male uses XCalibr. The mutant fires a Psi Pistol and
the monster (try for a Ten-Gu) uses Thunder. Dad should either attack, or
use the heal wand, depending on the condition of the party. 4-6 rounds
should do the trick. Get the final MAGI and return to town.

APOLLO

Return to the area where you fought the Minion, and go through the
door to the pillar of sky. Walk to the end and into the palace. At
the end, Apollo awaits.

Defeating Apollo isn't easy at all. Here is how I did it. My female
human fired a laser pistol (about 400 damage), my male human used
XCalibr (about 250-300), the mutant fired a Psi pistol (about 300-350)
and my monster (a nymph) used Whirl. Dad fired the Vulcan (about 100)
The first 4-5 rounds, Apollo won't attack you.

Once he does, you have to change your strategies. Keep the first 3
doing the same thing as before. The nymph, now out of Whirl ability,
should Cure the character that needs it the most. Dad should wave
the heal wand. It should preserve your party for the 8-10 rounds
needed to finish off this one. When it is done, Apollo will explode.
Your dad must be alive at this point, along with one other party
member, or your party will perish.

When you have won, examine your father. After a short interlude,
he will be alive, and Isis will be in your party. Return to the
final town. By 4-5 tents, and return to the palace. Go through the
door that is behind where Apollo was standing, and enter the
Central Shrine.

CENTRAL SHRINE

Important note: You cannot run from any battles at this point. Don't
waste a round trying to do so. Isis' flare is very effective, but it
should be saved for trouble situations, since there are only 5
charges. You can run from Haniwas, however.

The direction is straightforward. Down the stairs. On the 5th level,
you will encounter a Tianlung. It has about 1500 hit points, and it
shouldn't take more than two rounds to end its life. Definitely be
sure to eat the meat if there is a monster in your party. At level 7,
the paths will split. Stay on the middle path. At the end of level 8,
you fight some Fenrirs. Save before fighting this monster! If there
are enough of them, and they all cast the Tornado spell, they will
wipe out your party! Also, have Isis with at least two Flare abilities
left. 2 rounds should be enough. Eat its meat at the end.

Now you are in the security area. Isis' directions of up and to the
left are pretty accurate. When you get there, go left through the
first two intersection. Turn up, and turn left at the next two
intersections. Follow the path. Next intersection go up, then
turn immediately to the left. Go up at all future intersections,
and you will reach the Arsenal. Isis will ask if you are ready.

Answer No, and use a tent. Get all the weapons you will need ready,
then go forward again. Answer yes, and enter the final battle.

There are two waves:

Cannon wave: Female human       Laser pistol
             Male human         XCalibr
             Mutant             Psi Pistol
             Monster            (Most powerful attack)

Smasher wave:	Same, but have the mutant wave the heal wand if needed.
Change it to every round once the Smasher is being launched. Then, use
your big weapons (Glass sword, Nukebomb, Hyper cannon) until they run
out.

Enjoy the end of game movie.
