*********************************************************************

                   Final Fantasy Legend II Walkthrough
                              Version 1.3
                           By Robert Paulson

*********************************************************************


This walkthrough is meant to be a guide for Squaresoft's Gameboy game
Final Fantasy Legend II. This walkthrough is protected under national
copyright law. This document Copyright 1998 Robert Paulson. This document may
only be used for non-profit purposes, and credit must be given to me, its
author. You may put this walkthrough on your web site,given that you give me
credit for it, and don't alter it in any form. I have put a lot of time and
effort into this walkthrough. If you see any mistakes or have any new
information, please contact me at rpaulson@mtlakes.csnet.net for corrections.
New information is always appreciated.

Contents---------------------------------------------------------------

1. Corrections
2. Walkthrough
3. Controls
4. Status Screen
5. Characters
6. Battle Information
7. Magi
8. Weapons
9. Armor
10. Items
11. Magic Books
12. Abilities
13. Shops
14. Monsters
15. Monster Abilities
16. Miscellaneous Tips
17. Game Genie Codes
18. Special Thanks


1. Corrections---------------------------------------------------------

I will try to have an update done with in the next three months

1-12-99
I added a Monster Ability section. This section explains what the different
monster attacks do. I also added some weapons/armor/items to the list which
shows what some enemies drop.

1-8-99
I corrected a couple more spacing mistakes and added the Dragon Warp tip to the
Miscellaneous Tips section.

1-7-99
I corrected some of the spacing mistakes that appeared when this walkthrough was
posted. I have corrected a few grammar mistakes, but I am sure there are more.


2. Walkthrough---------------------------------------------------------

1. Home Town – Cure Potion

* After following the story line for a while, you will have to choose
your group. For further information on how to build a good group, look
at the character's section. Once you are able to control you character,
go south into the main part of town.
* Go inside the northeast house of the four houses and talk to the
man. He will give you a Cure Potion. The southeast house is the Hero's,
and his mom will let your group rest for free. Once you are done, leave
the village. The exit can be found just southeast of the schoolhouse.
Just before your group leaves the town, Mr. S will join you.
* The Prism Magi that your Dad gave you tells you how many Magi are
left in the world. The list of Magi that you currently have, can be
found by going to the Magi section in your command list.

2. North Cave – Cure Potion, Bronze Shield, Bow, Hammer

* After leaving the town, go north and into the cave. Mr. S is a very
valuable team member. By the time you defeat the end monster of the
cave, you should have used all of Mr. S's attacks. By doing this you
can gain a lot of experience and a large amount of gold.
* Floor 1 * Follow the path south, east, and go north through the door.
The ladder directly north of you will lead to two treasure chests. Open
them for a Cure Potion and a Bronze Shield. Climb back down the ladder
and go east, north underneath the bridge, and southeast to another
ladder. Climb the ladder, follow the path, and then go north through
the door. Follow the path north, go down the steps, and follow the
path. As you go north look for an indentation in the wall to the east.
There are two treasures that contain a Bow and a Hammer. Follow the
path and save just before the monster. Talk to the monster and it will
attack you. The BabyWyrm has 81 HP, and can be killed by one Fire
attack by Mr. S. Once the monster has been killed, and use have used up
all of Mr. S's attacks, go north through the door to exit the cave.

3. First Town - Nothing

* Your companion Mr. S departs as soon as you exit the cave. Go to the
town in the northeast corner of your screen.
* If you are running low on weapons, you should buy some more. However,
you should definitely buy some armor. Armor is sold in the Item Shop.
The café is a very useful place for finding information about your next
destination.
* You might want to consider building up some gold by fighting outside
the town. This should give you enough money to buy some good weapons.

4. Ki's Temple - Nothing

* After exiting the town, walk north about ten steps, and then west
until you see a large Temple. Go into the Temple and up the stairs. Go
north and talk to Ki who will tell you that there might be relics in
the Ruins south of the Temple. Once you have talked to her, exit the
Temple.

5. Southern Relics – Whip, Cure Potion

* From the Temple go southwest. The Ruins can be found by moving (three
spaces south of the rock and fourth space east of the rock).
* Floor 1 * Go north, either east or west, and follow the path. Then go
north and through the door.
* BFloor 2 * The room to the east has a treasure chest with a Whip in
it. Once you have opened the chest, exit the room, go east, and follow
the path until you see an indentation on the south wall. Go south
through the indentation and then down the stairs.
* BFloor 3 * Go clockwise and then down the stairs. All the rooms here
have empty treasure chests in them.
* BFloor 4 * The path that goes west will lead to a room with a Cure
Potion inside. Once you have gotten that, walk out of the room and go
counter clockwise. Go through the door and follow the path to another
door. Go through the door and walk north. You will see some people
ahead of you who stealing the Magi you were looking for. After leave,
follow them through the door. The chests they leave behind are empty.
Go north and through another door. Open the treasure chests for three
Magi (Power, Speed and Mana). Exit the room and take the path to the
west where the raiders are. Follow them through the door.
* Floor 1 * Your group is moved to a glade behind the ruins. The raiders are
dead, their Magi stolen by Ashura's men. Exit the Ruins by following
the path in the northwest corner of the forest.

6. Ki's Temple - Nothing

* After exiting the Ruins go northeast to Ki's Temple. Enter the Temple
and go north to the next floor. Talk to Ki, and after she heals you,
you tell her the story about Ashura's men. She decides to join you.
* Exit the temple, go west a little and then north to the next town.
* (If you haven't bought the Gold Gauntlet's yet, go back the First
Town and buy them.

7. Second Town - Nothing

* The Weapons are probably too expensive for you to buy right now. Rest
at the Inn, and then exit the town.

8. Ashura's Base – Speed Potion, Silver Gauntlet, Axe, (Defense, Ice,
Fire Magi)

* Go east until the mountains stop you. Go north and take the first
path east. Then go north and enter Ashura's Base.
* Floor 1 * Don't touch any of the wandering monsters or you will have
to fight them. Go counterclockwise and through the door. Go west and up
the stairs.
* Floor 2 * Go east and south through the door. Follow the path east
and then south through another door. Then go east and up the stairs.
* Floor 3 * Go west and then south. Go through the door to the west and
follow the path. There is a treasure chest in the northeast corner of
the room with a Speed Potion. Now go southeast and up the stairs.
* Floor 4 * Follow path going west and go into the room. Go north and
open the treasure chest for a Silver Gauntlet. Then go east and up the
stairs.
* Floor 5 * Follow the path counter-clockwise and open the treasure for
an Axe. Then go east, north, and through the door. Go north and save
your game before you attack the Rhino. The Rhino has 170 HP. Just to
show you how easy the Rhino is, I used a Thunder spell and a Flame
spell and the Rhino died. The building starts to blow up. Go north and
open the treasure chests for three Magi, (Defense, Ice and Fire. Then
go north and exit the base.

9. Pillar of the Sky – Nothing

* You characters have been recharged after leaving the base, so go
north into the Pillar of the Sky. I view the Pillar of the Sky as a
large vine growing straight up, and that has different branches coming
off of it which lead to different worlds. This is why I have listed
different floors.
* Floor 1 * Go north and Ki leaves once you step on the odd tile. You
are moved north to another platform. Then go north and through the
door.
* Floor 2 * Go east and up the vine.
* Floor 3 * Go south onto the tile and then out the door.

10. Desert Town – Nothing

* In this town you can encounter random battles. Go to the Item shop
and buy some new armor, (Silver Helmets).
* Exit the town and go west to until you reach the mountains. Stay
along the mountain's edge and go south. Once you reach the bottom of
the screen go east along the mountains. After walking for a while, look
for a patch of sand near the north side of you screen. Stand directly
before it and go north.

11. Ashura's Town - Nothing

* Keep on going north until you reach the town. If you are having trouble
finding the town, it is also slightly northwest of Ashura's Tower. This town has
nothing much to offer except its Inn. Recharge at the Inn and enter Ashura's
Tower.

12. Ashura's Tower – Sabre, Colt, Silver Shield, Power Potion, Magic
Potion, Battle Sword, Silver Helmet, (Magi - Power, Speed, Mana, Fire,
Ice, Thunder, Poison)

* Go southeast and into the tower.
* Floor 1 * Go north up the steps until you reach the stairs. Then go
up the stairs to the next floor.
* Floor 2 * Go counterclockwise around the room and then north through
the door.
* Floor 3 * Go west, north up the steps and follow the path. Go west
and then through the door.
* Floor 4 * Go northeast and open the treasure chest for a Sabre. Then
go south and up the stairs.
* Floor 5 * Go north and talk to the Woodman. He will then attack you.
This battle is easy; the Woodman only has 148 HP. After he is defeated
a character called Mask will join your group. Go north and up the
stairs.
* Floor 6 * Go north and Mask will find his equipment. Go either east
or west to the bottom of the floor. Then go up the stairs.
* Floor 7 * Go north and at the north end of the floor, open the
treasure chest for a Colt. Go southwest and through the door to the
next floor.
* Floor 8 * Follow the path as it zigzags, and go through the door to
the next floor.
* Floor 9 * Follow the path counterclockwise. Open the treasure near
the stairs for a Silver Shield. Then go up the stairs.
* Floor 10 * Open up the treasure chests on either side of the stairs
for Power Potion on the right and a Magic Potion on the left. Go north
up the small steps and open the treasure chests for a Battle Sword and
a Silver Helmet. Go north up the steps and save your game before you
talk to Ashura.
* Ashura has 850 HP. He is very hard to kill. He can use the Flame
spell which does roughly 90 damage to each character. His other attacks
are the Sleep Spell and 6-Arms. The Mask's hammer does the most damage,
around 125 per turn. Once you have defeated Ashura you will get 7 Magi.
(Power, Speed, Mana, Fire, Ice, Thunder, Poison)

13. Ki's Temple – Defense Magi

* Once you have defeated Ashura you will be warped back to Ki's Temple.
While you are being warped you are also healed of all the injuries
sustained while fighting Ashura.
* Go north to Ki. Talk to the fairy next to her and she will give you a
Defense Magi. She will also tell you to go see the Giant's so that you
can micronize yourself. Now go north to the Pillar and begin to climb
the floors to Giant's World.

14. Pillar in the Sky - nothing

* Floor 1 * Go north and step onto the odd tile. Go north and through
the door.
* Floor 2 * Go east and up the vine.
* Floor 3 * Go east and through the door.
* Floor 4 * Go north and up the vine.
* Floor 5 * Go south onto the tile. Then go south and out the door.

15. Giant Town – Thunder Magi

* Go south and into the town. Go a little northeast and into the Item
Shop. If you want you can buy some Silver Armor or save up your money
for better armor. Go west to the Weapon Shop and if you want you can
upgrade all your character's weapons. The Item Shop above the Weapon
store sells some very expensive Giant Armor. This armor is a lot better
then what you have but also a lot more expensive.
* Go to the bar in the northeast corner of town. Talk to Johnny who is
sitting near the west section of the bar. As soon as you talk to him he
denies doing anything. That sounds pretty incriminating. Now go south
and just before you exit the town follow the east path in between the
woods. At the end of the path talk to your Dad. He says that he must
keep on looking for Magi. He also gives you the Thunder Magi.
* Your Dad leaves but promises to meet you back here. Follow the path
northwest and into the back area of the Giant's Item Shop. Talk to the
owner and he tells you that Johnny was able to get into the Old Giant's
Town. Go back to the bar and talk to Johnny. He tells you that you can
get up on the stairs near the northern part of Giant's Town and that
you can climb the shelves there. Now exit the town.

16. Old Giant's Town – Power Magi, Poison Magi, Gold Shield, Geta
Shoes, Micron

* To find the Old Giant's Town go east and then north. Take the first
path going east and walk to the bottom of the stairs. You should see a
darker color on one of the bottom stair blocks. In case you can't see
it, it is the third block to the east. Walk north onto the space.
* Once you are moved to the top of the stairs. Go east a little and
south. There are four houses here. Go south to the third house from the
top. Go through the small hole into the house. Go southeast and open
the treasure chests for a Poison and Power Magi.
* Exit the house and go north to the first house. Go through the small
hole. Go south and open the treasure for a Gold Shield. Then go east
and open the treasure for Geta Shoes. Then go north and climb up the
shelves. Go south and get the Micron. Exit the house and go back to the
Giant Town.
* If at all possible you should try to fight around the town to get
money. The Giant armor that is being sold is much more powerful then
the armor you currently have. The Giant armor also increases your
strength. I highly recommend buying it. Once you are ready, trace back
your path to the Ki's Temple.

17. Ki's Body – (Fire, Ice, Thunder, Defense, Speed, Poison, and Mana)
Magi

* Go north up the stairs and talk to Ki. The Micron is used, and you go
into her body. Ki has seven magi in her body. One in her right foot,
left foot, right hand, left hand, heart, and stomach/intestine. The
last Magi are in her head, but you need to have the other six before
you can get it. If you need to you can always go back out to heal up or
buy weapons.
* Go south and at the intersection go west. Follow the path and go into
the mini-cave. Now go east and follow the path to a big room. To the
north and east of you are 5 passages. They represent the five fingers
of a left hand. Take the "ring finger passage," the second passage
going from left to right. Go north to get the Fire Magi. Once you get
this you will be brought out of Ki's hand and outside the mini-cave.
* Now follow the path and at the intersection continue straight ahead.
(This means keep on going east) Now follow the path to another mini-
cave which is Ki's right hand. Follow the path to the intersection.
Take the path going left and then take the first path north. When you
reach the fork take the west path. Go north and get the Ice Magi. Once
you are back to Ki's main body follow the path northwest back to the
intersection.
* At the intersection go south and then at the fork go west. Follow the
path a little ways to another fork. Take the one going northeast.
Follow the path and enter the mini-cave. This is Ki's heart. Go east
and follow the path through Ki's heart. At the end of the path open the
treasure chest to get a Defense Magi.
* After being warped out of the mini-cave go south. Follow the path to
a cave; this is Ki's left foot. Follow the path around until you reach
a fork. Take the east path and then go north. At the next fork take the
east path and follow it north. Get the Thunder Magi, and once you are
outside Ki's foot, go north. At the fork take the left path and follow
that to a three-way intersection. Continue going straight (east) and
follow the path as it goes south.
* At the fork take the short path to the west, which will bring your
group to Ki's Stomach and Intestine. Follow the path. (It goes on for a
while). Once you enter the big room, go northeast and get the Speed
Magi. Once you are out of the mini-cave go south and follow the path to
Ki's right foot.
* Follow the path north. Once you reach the intersection take the path
to the east. At every fork take the path to the east. Go up the
farthest path to the east and get the Poison Magi. Now go north, at the
fork take the right path, at the intersection take the north path, and
at the next intersection take the north path.
* If you want you can get outside Ki's body by taking the path directly
to the north. Then you can go to a town and heal up. If you are ready
for a major battle, take either the left or right path. Follow the path
and then go north into the mini-cave. This is Ki's head. Go north and
at the fork take either path. At the next fork take either path and
follow it to the creature blocking the road. Save your game and talk to
him.
* Some Phagocytes that are guarding Ki's last Magi will attack you. The
number of Phagocytes that you fight can vary, so if you want you can
try to get a low number so the fight will be easy. However, they are
relatively easy to beat and they have only 145 HP. At the end of the
battle, your HP and abilities will be replenished. Once they are
defeated, go north and get the Mana Magi. Once you get the Magi you
will be warped outside Ki's body.

18. Pillar in the Sky – Nothing

* Floor 1 * Go north and step onto the odd tile. Go north and through
the door.
* Floor 2 * Go east and up the vine.
* Floor 3 * Go east and through the door.
* Floor 4 * Go north and up the vine.
* Floor 5 * Go east and through the door.
* Floor 6 * Go east and up the vine.
* Floor 7 * Go south onto the tile. Then go south and out the door.

19. Apollo's World – Defense Magi

* Go south, and then take a couple steps east to Apollo's Castle. Once
you are in the castle, go north and through the large door. Go north
and talk to Apollo. He gives you a Defense Magi and tells you a riddle,
" One is where wind blows under ground… One is where flame burns under
water… One is where darkness shines brightly. These are the three
locations where you will find the other Magi.

20. Port Town – Nothing

* From outside Apollo's castle go southeast and into Port Town. If you
talk to the villagers they say that Neptune is bothering them. The
scholar in the Café says that there is an Undersea Volcano to the
south.
* The weapons and armor here aren't that great. I didn't buy anything.
* Exit the town and go south. Go south and walk into the water.

21. Undersea Volcano – Gold Sword, Power Potion, Fire Spell Book, and a
(Fire, True Eye and Poison Magi)

* Go southwest and into the volcano. (The lava near the volcano's
entrance and the lava inside the volcano take off a hit point when you
step on it.
* Floor 1 * Once you are in the Volcano go south through the lava and
up the ramp. Go south back into the lava, east, and north through the
archway. Go north and up the stairs.
* Floor 2 * Go north up the ramp and onto the land. Then go east and
then up the stairs in the northeast corner of the room.
* Floor 3 * Go west, up the ramp, and follow the path south. Open the
two treasures for a Gold Sword and Power Potion. After getting the
treasures go east and up the stairs.
* Floor 4 * Go southwest and open the treasure for a Fire Spell Book.
If you walk to the west you will see the healing pool on a different
landmass. If you want, you can use the healing pool by going south,
into the lava, west, and up the ramp to the healing pool. Otherwise go
north at the opened treasure chest and into the lava. Go north and
through the door to the next floor.
* Floor 5 * Go north up the different levels of the floor. At the top,
open the treasure chests for a Fire, True Eye and Poison Magi. (There
is nothing up the side passages) Go north and up the steps to exit the
volcano. Go northeast and get out of the water. Go back to Port Town
and heal up.

22. Cave of Light – Power Potion, Giant Gauntlet, Thunder Spell Book,
Laser Sword, Revenge Sword, (Thunder, Mana and Ice) Magi

* The cave is to the northeast of Port Town. You need the True Eye Magi
to see in the cave.
* Floor 1 * Go southeast and up the stairs.
* Floor 2 * Go west across the bridge, south down some steps, east, and
up the stairs.
* Floor 3 * Go north to the two different tunnels. The right tunnel
will bring you to a treasure chest with a Power Potion. Then go back
south and take the left tunnel. Go north through another tunnel, and
then go up the stairs to the north.
* Floor 4 * Go east and open the treasure for a Giant Gauntlet. Go
southeast and through the wall. Continue going east to a treasure
chest. Open the treasure for a Thunder Spell Book. Then go south, west,
and up the stairs.
* Floor 5 * Go north up the steps and then west. Take the first set of
steps south, and then walk west. Open the treasure for a Laser Sword.
Then go east and back up the steps. Now go west across the bridge. Then
go north up the steps and follow the path to the stairs. Then go up the
stairs to the next floor.
* Floor 6 * Go east until you reach three paths that go north. Take the
far right path, and go north through the tunnel. Continue going north
and open the treasure chest for a Revenge Sword. Then go back south and
walk out of the path. Now take the middle path and go north. Then go up
the stairs to the next floor.
* Floor 7 * Go west and up the steps. Open the treasure for a Thunder
Magi. Go down the steps and then east. Take the first path going north
that you find. Go north, up another pair of steps, and open the
treasure for a Mana Magi. Go south to the bottom of the screen and then
east to the wall. Go north up the steps and open the treasure for an
Ice Magi. Then go south down the steps and take the large path going
north. Follow the path and then go up the stairs to exit the cave.

23. Dunatis Town - Nothing

* From the cave go a couple steps south and then west to the widely
spaced forest. From its east edge go north to Dunatis Town.
* The Weapon Shop sells some great weapons. Go into the house that is
located in the northeast corner of town. Go northwest and up the
stairs. Talk to the person lying down in the bed, and she will tell you
that her daughter went into the Mountain Cave.

24. South Mountain Cave – Hermes Boot

* Exit the town and go north into the cave.
* Go directly south to the wall. Then go east, and then go north
through the tunnel. Go east and open the treasure for a Hermes Boot.
Then exit the cave by going west, south through the tunnel, and
northwest to the exit.

25. North Mountain Cave – Rocket, X-Cure, (Magi - Power, Speed, and
Mana)

* This cave is directly to the north of the South Mountain Cave.
* Floor 1 * Go southeast and then south through the tunnel. Then go
south and down the stairs.
* BFloor 2 * Go southeast until you reach a large fork. Go south to
another fork. Take the small path going south. Then go west and down
the stairs.
* BFloor 3 * Go a little east and then north. Go north through the
tunnel and then go north through another tunnel to a treasure. Open the
chest for a Rocket, and then go south back through the tunnel. Go east,
north through a tunnel, southeast, and then down the stairs.
* BFloor 4 * Go south and take the first path to the east. Follow the
path and at the intersection go east. Then go down the stairs to the
next floor. (The other path leads to the same spot)
* BFloor 5 * Go south down the slippery tunnel. The path to the west
will bring you to a treasure. Open the chest for an Elixier. Then go
back and continue to walk east. Eventually you will see a person
blocking the path. Talk to Lynn and she says Dunatis is blocking the
way. Lynn then joins your group. Go east and then north. Save your game
before Dunatis the robot. Talk to him and he will attack you.
* Dunatis has 275 HP and attacks with a powerful SMG. This battle is
fairly easy, and once you have defeated him you will get an X-Cure
along with the (Power, Speed, and Mana) Magi. You might also get a
ChainSaw or BlitzWhip. Supposedly, there is a way to get the Flare
ability from Dunatis. I have been unable to get the Flare ability, but
it should be noted that when you fight Dunatis, you have about a 35%
chance of having your ability changed. It is worth fighting him a
couple times, to see if you can even just get a good ability like O-
All.
* After winning the battle, you are warped back to Lynn's house. You
walk into the house and see… DAD! Your character thinks that Dad is
Lynn's father. After seeing this scene you leave the house, and vow to
collect all the Magi.

26. Pillar in the Sky – Nothing

* Exit the town and go west to the Pillar in the Sky. If you want you
can stop by Apollo's Palace. However, Apollo is missing… I wonder where
he went off too.
* Floor 7 * Go north onto the odd tile. Then go east and through the
door.
* Floor 8 * Go northwest and then up the vine.
* Floor 9 * Go south onto the tile. Then go south and out the door.

27. Guardian Town – Nothing

* Go to the Item Shop and buy the Hermes Boot for any characters that
need them. Buy everything you may need for the coming adventure. Once
you are done shopping go to the Café.
* Go to the jukebox and play the Heroic Tune. A secret door opens and
you are suddenly captured as spies.

28. Guardian Base – Power, Speed, Defense, and Fire Magi

* Go to the gate and hit the A button. The guard tells you to
"Shut up." Then Dad comes and gives the guard a talking too. The
guard opens the gate, and your Dad leaves. Go south and out the door.
* BFloor 1 * Follow the path clockwise and go down the stairs.
* BFloor 2 * Go south and down the stairs.
* BFloor 3 * Go west, north up the path, and through the door. Talk to
Dad who will tell you to rest. During your sleep you hear a loud noise
and you wake up. Go south out the door. Monsters are attacking the
Guardian,s Base.
* BFloor 3 * Go south, east, and talk to the Ogre. Once you have
defeated it, you will get the Power Magi. Go north and up the stairs.
* BFloor 2 * Talk to your Dad and he joins your party. Go north and
fight a Mantcore. Once he is defeated you will get a Speed Magi. Go
north up the stairs.
* BFloor 1 * Go west and save your game before the Magician. Once he is
defeated you will get the Defense Magi. Then go north and up the
stairs.
* You are now in the Café. Take either path to the next screen. Now go
south and exit the café. Go north back to the Pillar in the Sky. Save
your game, and talk to the Commando.
This battle is very easy. After the battle you will get the Fire Magi.
The Commando will also tell you that Lynn is captured, and that she can
be found in the next world.

29. Pillar in the Sky - Nothing

* Floor 9 * Go north onto the odd tile. Then go east and through the
door.
* Floor 10 * Go west and up the vine.
* Floor 11 * Go south onto the tile. Then go south and out the door.
While you are going south you might see a couple stores to the side. If
you hold down the control panel to one side you will be able to access
the stores. The store sells the exact same weapons and items, as the
stores at Guardian's Base.


30. Ninja World – Ice and Poison Magi

* Go west and follow the path. After some dialogue your Dad gives you
an Ice Magi, and then goes to fight the Ninja. He is defeated and the
Ninja comes back for you. The Ninja has 670 HP, and has a very powerful
Katana or Ice Sword attack. After defeating him you get the Poison
Magi.

31. Dunatis Town – Thunder Magi

* You then go back to Lynn's house.
* Talk to Lynn and you vow to keep on collecting Magi for your Dad.
Then talk to Lynn's mother and she tells you that your Dad was looking
after Lynn after her real father died and she gives you the Thunder
Magi.
* Exit the town and go west to Apollo's Castle and then north to the
Pillar in the Sky.

32. Pillar in the Sky - Nothing

* Floor 7 * Go north onto the odd tile. Then go east and through the
door.
* Floor 8 * Go northwest and then up the vine.
* Floor 9 * Go east and then north through the door.
* Floor 10 * Go west and up the vine.
* Floor 11 * Go east and then north through the door
* Floor 12 * Go south and up the vine.
* Floor 13 * Go south onto the tile. Then go south and out the door.

33. Venus Town – Nothing

* Follow the path south, west, and then go into the city.
* Visit Venus who is in the building in the middle of the city. Her
palace can be found on the second level of the city. Once you have
talked to her, you will be able to exit the town. Make sure that you
also talk to Nils and Flora, who can be found on opposite sides of the
palace.
* The city also sells better weapons and armor.
* The exit through the town walls can be found in the southwest corner
of the outer city wall.

34. SubVenus Town – Nothing

* After exiting the wall guarding Venus, follow the mountains to the
immediate left. Walk clockwise around them and enter the town. The town
is also located near the bottom corner of Venus's west wall.
* Go north and talk to Leon. Then go to the northwest house in the
town. Talk to the frog, who should be in, or near the house. He says
that there is a sewer near the Town of Venus's north wall.

35. Sewers – Speed Potion, Psi Sword, Key, (Magi - Speed, Power, Mana,
Thunder, Defense and Ice), Elixier, Giant Helm

* Go east and follow the city's wall, north, and then east until you
see the cave. Go into the cave.
* BFloor 1 * Go south and into the water. Follow the stream southeast.
Take the first steps you see coming out of the water, and follow the
path to a treasure chest. Open the chest for a Speed Potion. Go back
into the water and continue going southeast. Then walk up the next
steps you see coming out of the water. Then circle around clockwise and
go down the stairs to the next floor.
* BFloor 2 * Go west, south and east. Go north up the bridge, and then
east to a treasure. Open the treasure for a Psi sword and go north
through the door. Go north and save your game before talking to the
Hermit. The Hermit only has 392 HP. Once he is defeated you will get
the Key. Go south out of the room and south across the bridge. Then go
east, and then south down the stairs.
* BFloor 3 * Go east, into the water, east, and up the first steps you
see. Open the door and walk in. There are four treasure chests here.
The ones on the left, have a Power and Speed Magi. The top right one
has a Mana Magi. The bottom right chest has a powerful monster group in
it. There is at least one Mephisto and one Phantom. The meat from these
monsters is fairly useful if you have a monster. Exit the room and go
into the water. Then go east and up the next steps that you see. Then
go southeast and down the stairs.
* BFloor 4 * Go east and up the steps to another door. When you enter
this room, you will see that it is similar to the last. The bottom
right treasure still has the same monster group except the number of
monsters may be different. The other treasure chests have a Defense,
Ice, and Thunder Magi. Exit the room and go south through the tunnel
into a big room. Go south, up the steps, and down the stairs to the
next floor.
* BFloor 5 * Go into the water and west. Open the submerged treasure in
the northwest corner or water for an Elixier. Then go east and back
onto land. Follow the path as it zigzags around. Take the path to the
north before you cross the bridge. Open the treasure for a Giant Helm
and then walk back to the bridge. Then go south and east across the
bridge. Then follow the path and go through the door. Now take a couple
steps west and go south through the door.
* You are now back at Venus's Castle. Go west and up the stairs. Then
go north and talk to Venus. She says the Magi must be fake… "Cough…"
can you say liar. Exit the castle and talk to Flora. As you are talking
a large Volcano rises up in northwest section of this world.

36. Volcano – Flame Sword, Magic Potion, Fire Gun, Mage Staff, Flame
Shield, Fire Magi, Poison Magi (Power Magi which Leon steals from you)

* Exit Venus Town and walk to Sub-Venus town. From here, go northwest
and walk into the Volcano.
* Floor 1 * Follow the path south, east, and then north. While you are
walking you will catch a glimpse of Leon following you. Ignore this. As
you are walking north you will have to walk through some lava. The
damage is only –1 HP, however, still try to get through as quickly as
possible. Go north and up the stairs to the next floor.
* Floor 2 * Go north and recover you HP at the recovery fountain. Then
follow the path south and walk into the lava. Go east and back onto
land. Go east, north through the passageway, and follow the path as it
loops around to the stairs. Then go up the stairs to the next floor.
* Floor 3 * Walk north and into the lava. Then walk 5 steps west and 5
steps south. Then walk west until you are stopped by a rock. Then look
west for the pier so that you can climb out of the lava. Once you are
on land, follow the path and go up the stairs.
* Floor 4 * Follow the path west for a long ways, and then go up the
stairs to the next floor.
* Floor 5 * Go north and into the lava. Go north and onto the pier. Go
east through the wall, and continue walking east. Once you see the pier
go onto it, and walk south. Open the treasure in the lava for a Flame
Sword. Then walk north, onto the pier, and back onto land. Go east and
then south. Follow the path and open the treasure chest just before the
bridge for a Magic Potion. Go south, across the bridge, and go up the
stairs to the next floor.
* Floor 6 * Go east and open the treasure chests for a Fire Gun and a
Mage Staff. Go east, south off the pier, and into the lava. Go south
and take the last path going west. Follow the path west and go up the
stairs.
* Floor 7 * Go north, onto the pier, and then continue going north. Go
east through the hole in the wall. Now you can stay on land and go east
to a HP recovery fountain, or go into the lava to continue your
journey. Once you are in the lava, go east to the next screen. Go
southeast and go onto the pier that is the closest to you. Follow the
path west a couple steps and then go south to the treasure. Open the
treasure chest for a Flame Shield.  Then follow the path back north and
go back into the lava. Then take the pier below the one that you just
went on. Follow the path south and then east. Open the first chest for
a Fire Magi, the next one for a Power Magi. Once you have opened this
chest Leon steals it from you. Then open the next treasure chest for a
Poison Magi. Then go north and out of the cave.

37. The Wedding – Power Magi, (Magi - Power, Speed, Mana, Fire, Ice,
Thunder, Poison and Aegis)

* Go southeast and back to Venus town. Heal your group and buy any
upgrades on your battle equipment. Use the escalator stairs to the
west, and then follow the path to Venus's palace. Then go east and talk
to the moth person who tells you that the wedding ceremony of Nils and
Flora is just about to begin. Use the west door of the palace, and go
north into another room. Go north and talk to Venus. Just when you
think that they are going to get married, Leon crashes the wedding.
* After a scene you decide to oppose Venus. Before you fight Venus talk
to Leon who will give you back your Power Magi. Venus has about 2,280-
2500 HP. I tried several times to calculate an exact amount, but I
found a wide range of conflicting HP values for when she dies. Venus c
can attack with Flame, Blitz Whip, Charm and Erase. I also think that
Venus also has O-All protection. Once Venus is defeated you will get
the Power, Speed, Mana, Fire, Ice, Thunder, Poison and Aegis Magi. Now
restock on any weapons that you need and exit the town. Now go to the
Pillar of the Sky.

38. Pillar of the Sky – Nothing

* Floor 13 * Go north onto the odd tile. Then go east and through the
door.
* Floor 14 * Go north and up the vine to the next floor.
* Floor 15 * Go south and onto the odd tile. Then go south and through
the door.

39. Race Town – (Magi – 2 Defense, Speed, and Mana)

* From the vine take about 4 steps south and walk west until you see
the town.
* Once you are in the town visit the Weapon Shop, and if you want, you
can buy some new weapons. The Armor Shop is selling Dragon Armor, which
is slightly better then the Giant Armor because it gives protection
against elemental based attacks and poison. Once you are done with this
go visit Apollo who is living in the large house in the west section of
town.
* Go into Apollo's house and north through a door. Talk to him and he
will tell you that Magi are rewarded to those who win the race.
* Go to the Dragon Renting stalls, which are in the northeast corner of
town. The Dragon starting from the left going right, are priced at
1,000 for the fastest, 800 for the next fastest, 600 for the next, and
the slowest dragon is free. No matter which dragon you choose, you will
still win the race. If you take the slowest dragon you will avoid most
of the battles and if you take the fastest you will have to battle a
lot of monsters. However, I do recommend using the fast dragon so you
can fight some of the advanced monsters, and get better meat that your
monsters can eat.
* If you are using the very fast dragon, the first main battle you
fight will be a large group of Adamant's. Once they are defeated you
will get a Defense Magi. The second main battle is a small group of
Tortoises. Once they are defeated, you will get a Speed Magi. The third
main battle is a small group of Lamias. Once they are defeated, they
will give you a Mana Magi. The battle is a group of around three or
four Watchers. When they are defeated you will get a Defense Magi. Now
follow the track to the finish line. Once you are back in town, restock
and go back to the Pillar in the Sky.

40. Pillar in the Sky – Nothing

* Floor 15 * Go north onto the odd tile. Then go east and through the
door.
* Floor 16 * Go south and up the vine to the next floor.
* Floor 17 * Go south and onto the odd tile. Then go south and through
the door.

41. Edo Village - Nothing

* From the vine, go south until you hit the water. Then go east until
you hit the water. Then go south until you hit the wall. Then go
clockwise along the town's wall and into the town.
* Go to the Weapon/Item store and buy some Dragon Helmets. If you have
some money to blow you can buy some Dragon Swords for your Robot.
* Then go to the north section of town and talk to the Hatamatos. They
are fairly easy to beat, and have about 355 HP. However, their Katana
Sword can hurt you pretty bad. Across the town there is a cheaper
Weapon Shop, and a very good Armor shop.

42. Hana's Town – Nothing

* From outside Edo Village, go east, and across the bridge that can be
found a couple steps north of you. Then go east, across another bridge
and into Hana's Town.
* Go east and into the first building you see. Talk to Hana who says
she is investigating Echigoya. Talk to some of the people in town and
you will hear rumors about Echigoya killing Hana's father, and a secret
banana smuggling operation. The Weapon Shop here offers the cheapest
weapons in this world, and there is also an Item Shop. After walking
around in town for a while go back to Hana and talk to her. She says,
"If only I could get their ship…" Sounds like Echigoya is a smuggler.
Now go back to Edo Village.

43. Shipyard – Laser Gun, Tank Cannon, Hecate Shoes

* Now go to Echigoya's Weapon shop. Walk around the counter, and talk
to Echigoya. He will tell you that the shipment is coming to the
Harbor.
* Exit the town and go south. Go east across the first bridge that you
see. Talk to the Kame, the turtle guy, who is standing right near the
entrance. He will tell you that Hana went to the ship alone. The ship
is at the end of the middle pier. Keep on walking down the pier until
you go to another screen.
* Floor 1 * Once you are on the ship. Take either the right or left
path going south, and follow it to the main cabin. Go into the cabin
and down the stairs.
* BFloor 2 * Go south to the end of the ship and open the treasure for
a Laser Gun. Then go back north and go down the first stairs you see.
* BFloor 3 * Go northwest and open the treasure chest near the barrels
for a Tank Cannon. Then go north through the open lane in the middle of
the barrels. After passing the barrels, go east and open the treasure
chest for a Hecate Shoes. Then go north and through the gate. Talk to
Taro, the man, and he tells you that he saved Hana and that Echigoya is
smuggling bananas and can now be arrested. Leave the room and then exit
the ship.

44. Smuggling Operation – Nothing

* From the shipyard, go west until you hit a wall. Then go into the
little building you see. Talk to the judge and Echigoya will be
investigated. After a small scene you are moved to Hana's house. Taro
brings in Hana's friend Kame, who was beaten up by Echigoya's guards.
* Exit the town and go Echigoya's shop. The clerk is now gone so follow
the path to the end of the room. Open the door and go into the
basement.
* BFloor 1 * Walk west and go past first door that you see. This door
just leads to needless fights. Keep on going west and save your game
before entering the door. Enter the door and you will hear a
conversation between the Sho-gun and Echigoya. After listening to them
for a while, you decide to teach them a lesson.
* In this battle you will fight a large group of Hatamotos and
Echigoya. The battle is fairly easy. I had my Robot use a Tank which
killed the Hatamato group in only one shot. However, Echigoya does use
the Vulcan Cannon which can pack a powerful punch, but despite this,
you should have no problem winning the battle.
* After the battle you will reappear back at Hana's house. Here Hana
will leave you, and Taro, a guardian like your Dad, will join you. Taro
is about ten times better then Hana. Once you are ready to fight leave
the town and go west to the Sho-gun's castle.

45. Sho-gun's Castle – Ninja Gauntlet, Body Potion, Missile Cannon,
Dragon Sword, Dragon Shield, Samurai Bow, (Fire, Ice, Thunder, Poison
Magi)

* Once you are in the castle, go north and talk to the guards. They
will attack you, and once they are defeated, go north and through the
doors. Go west to the end of the castle, and then north through the
door. Go north, east, and south through the double doors. Follow the
path east, north, east, south, west past the ladder, and then north
through the double doors. Go west and up the small set of steps. Then
go west and through the double white doors.
* Floor 1 * Go north through the west doors. Then go north, east, and
to the next screen. Then go northeast and up the stairs to the next
floor.
* Floor 2 * Go west, south, west, and into the first door you see. Then
go north and up the stairs. (The other room to the west is empty)
* Floor 3 * Go south and then east. Go through the doorway and then
north to the treasures. Open the chests for a Ninja Gauntlet, Body
Potion, and Missile Cannon. Then go back out the doorway and west to
the end of the corridor. Go north through the doorway, and then north
up the stairs.
* Floor 4 * Go south, east and into the first doorway. Go north and
open the treasure chest for a Dragon Sword. Then go back out and
continue east. Then go north through the doorway and up the stairs.
* Floor 5 * Go south and open the treasure chest to the east for a
Dragon Shield. Go west and then north through the doorway. Then go
north through the doors and save your game.
* Go north and open the treasure chest for a Samurai Bow. Then talk to
Sho-gun. Sho-gun has 1900 HP. Once he is defeated you will have to
fight his father Magnate. Go north and attack Magnate. Magnate has very
powerful attack spells and can attack with a Vulcan Cannon. He has
about 5350 HP. I recommend using magic for your mutants, a Dragon Sword
for your Robots, a Muramas for Taro, and a Katana Sword for your Human.
Magnate can attack with a Katana, a Vulcan Cannon, and the magic
spells, Thunder and Tornado. Once he is defeated you will get the Fire,
Ice, Thunder, Poison Magi and 30800 gold. (If you look closely at the
top of the roof, you will see two dolphin statues. You are able to
attack these creatures, but they are very powerful. So far, I have been
unable to find any special item or weapon that the Dolphins leave
behind after they are defeated)
* After the battle you appear back at Hana's house, and then you say
good-bye to your friends. You then get warped to the section of vine
that reaches into this world. Now climb up the vine.

46. Pillar in the Sky – Nothing

* Floor 17 * Go north onto the odd tile. Then go east and through the
door.
* Floor 18 * Go southeast and up the vine.
* Floor 19 * Go south and onto the odd tile. Then go south and through
the door.

47. Nasty Dungeon – Pegasus Magi, Power Potion, Body Potion, Dragon
Armor, Ogre Axe, Speed Potion, Magic Potion, CatClaw, Vulcan, Elixier,
Laser Gun, Jyudo, Dragon Sword, Missile, Tent, Dragon Helmet, Muramas
Sword, Wizard Staff, Selfix Armor, Defend Sword, Samurai Bow, ParaSuit,
Psi Gun, Vampic Sword, Arthur Armor, Sun Sword, Karate, Hyper Cannon,
Tent, Flare Book, Glass Sword, Nuke Bomb, Gungnir Spear

* Go south and into the cave. Go south and talk to the fairy who says
that this is a tough cave, and that there is a Magi in the treasure
chest. Open the treasure chest for a Pegasus Magi. This is the only
Magi in the cave, so if you want you can leave, but some of the most
powerful weapons and armor are in here, so I recommend fighting through
it. The Pegasus Magi will allow you to teleport to any town or "main
place," that you have visited. I will now continue with instructions on
how to beat the cave.
* Floor 1 * After getting the Magi go south, east, and follow the path
as it twists and turns. Eventually you will have to choose between two
different steps leading to different paths. Take the right path, and at
the fork take the right path again. Then open the treasures for a Power
and Body Potion. Then go back and choose the other path at the next
fork you encounter. Go west and north through the gate. Follow the path
to find a Dragon Armor. Now go back to the gate and go west. Pass the
first path going north and then take the second path going north. At
the end of the path is an Ogre Axe. Now go back down, and then north at
first path that you passed. Follow the path and then go down the stairs
to the next floor.
* BFloor 2 * Go west, south, and at the end of the path go east through
the wall. Go north, three steps east and south through the gate. Go
southeast, and then north through a new gate. Go north, open the
treasure for a Speed Potion, and then go north through the gate. Follow
the path and go through another gate. Take a couple steps east, and
then walk north. Open the treasure for a Magic Potion. Now go back
south and through the gate to the east. Follow the path to the treasure
chests. Open the chests for a Catclaw and Vulcan Cannon. Follow the
path back and go south to a path going east. Continue going east along
the path, and then go south and down the stairs.
* BFloor 3 * Go east to the fork. The path to the south will lead you
to an Elixier and a Laser Gun. Now go back to the fork and take the
path that goes east. Follow the path until you reach a fork. The west
path will lead to a Jyudo and a Dragon Sword. Now go back to the fork
and take the path going south. Follow the path to the stairs. Then go
down the stairs to the next floor.
* BFloor 4 * Go south and take the west fork. Follow the path to a Tank
Cannon. Then go back to the fork and take the path going south. After a
couple of steps there will be another fork. The east path leads to
nothing, so take the path that continues going south. At the next fork
take the east path, which will lead to a Missile Cannon. Now go back to
the fork and continue south. At the next fork take the west path, which
will lead to a Tent. Then go back to the fork and continue south. At
the next fork continue south, and walk south until you find a treasure.
Open the treasure chest for a Dragon Helmet. Then go north and back to
the fork. Take the path and go east to another fork. Go east, follow
the path and go down the stairs to the next floor.
* Bfloor 5 * Take the east path, because the south path takes you to
the next floor. After going east for a while you will encounter a fork.
Take the north path and go west. Pass through the different walls and
eventually you will come to a treasure chest. Open the treasure chest
for a Muramas Sword. Now go back to the fork and take the south path.
You will have an option of taking two paths. The first path will then
split and open into two different rooms, with a treasure chest in them.
The first room has a Wizard Staff and the second a Selfix Armor. Now go
back and take the other path, which will also lead to two treasure
chests. The first room on this path has a Defend Sword, and the second
