Final Fantasy Legend II---Boss FAQ
Version 1.0
By: Magus999 a.k.a. Joe Sura

Sections:
I.    General Information about the FAQ
II.   General Tips
III.  Specific Bosses

Current information needed:
-Strategies on specific bosses
-More exact boss HP
-Anything else that should be added

*NOTE: For now, most of the information is in General Tips.  This will
change once I finish the specific boss section (probably by Thursday at
the latest) and once I start getting in information about some of the
specific hard bosses.

--I. General FAQ Information--

This FAQ is for defeating specific bosses in the game Final Fantasy
Legend II for the GameBoy.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

Version History
Current Version: 1.0

Version 1.0: Basic layout of the FAQ, and also covers the first two
worlds.

[Next Version] Finish first information about all bosses.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

This guide is copyrighted and the author (Magus999) grants you these
privileges:
A. You may read this guide.
B. You may download this guide and keep it on your PC.

You are not allowed to:
A. Sell this guide for profit.
B. Take any information from this guide without giving me FULL credit
for all of my work and asking my permission via email.

Websites are allowed to post this guide under the following conditions:
A. This guide will not be changed in any way.
B. I get FULL credit for this guide.
C. This guide is not displayed on a page with any advertisements.
D. Send me an e-mail that tells me you are posting the guide and gives
the web address of the site.


There are several things I assume about you in this walkthrough:

1. You have the game obviously.
2. You are not massively cheating.  If you are adding minor things,
fine, it's your life, however if you're using an invincibility code or
giving O-All and 99 Defense to every party member, you probably don't
even need to read this guide.
3. You know the interface in the game.  Read the manual.  I'll be
giving lots of help in fighting the bosses and what attacks to use, but
if you don't know how to equip a Flare Book or raise Agility, all my
information isn't going to help at all.


About the Author
This FAQ is written by Magus999.  If you want to contact me:

E-mail
Geniusjoe2001@yahoo.com
MY E-MAIL POLICY IS
 Make the subject "Final Fantasy Legend II" or "FFL2"
 Put all information in the text of the message
 No attachments
 Contributing information is great
 If you contribute, list what name you want in the credits section
 Constructive criticism is accepted
 Non-constructive criticism is not accepted
 It may take some time for me to respond
 Don't send the same message multiple times

I can also be contacted in the Final Fantasy Legend II Message Board at
www.gamefaqs.com
At gamefaqs, I am in the message boards as Magus999.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

ABBREVIATIONS USED IN THIS FAQ:
FFL2         Final Fantasy Legend II (the game you're playing)
AGI          Agility
STR          Strength
DEF          Defense
HP           Hit Points


--II. General Tips--

This section is mainly for information that applies to any boss.  For
information about a specific boss, check that piece of Part III.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
RACE BREAKDOWN AND TIPS:

Humans:  The physical fighters of FFL2.  They are there mainly to use
weapons and items.
-They have 8 free spots in their inventory for items and you should
remember that.  If you lack Cure spells, something as simple as
sticking an X-Cure Potion in one of your humans' free slots can often
fix lots of problems.
-Specialize your humans.  While it is possible to create a human with
99 in both STR and AGI, it takes a long time.  Male Humans gain STR
faster than AGI and Females gain AGI faster than STR.  So you should
follow these automatic guidelines in equipping and gaining stats.
Remember though, that even Males will need a minimum of Agility to hit
enemies, but it is relatively low.  Generally you will only want to
raise Male AGI when you're missing enemies a lot.
-In most parties, your Humans will be the ones in the front of your
party getting hit more often.  So they will need high HP and Defense.
To raise HP, you just fight lots of battles and it'll go up naturally.
Using Shields in battle can raise defense, but defense raises are quite
rare.  Usually if you make sure your Human is wearing good Armor,
you'll never need to fight for defense raises.
-Equip MAGI that match your type of weaponry.  AGI for a Human using
AGI weaponry, STR for a Human using STR weaponry and so on.  Sadly,
this isn't always possible since you only are able to equip one person
with each type.  If you have two Humans using the same weapon type, I
recommend giving the one with lower stats the correct MAGI and giving
the other either a Defense MAGI or a useable MAGI such as Aegis.

Mutants:  The main magical users of FFL2.  They have 4 slots for spells
and only 4 slots for weaponry, armor and items.  Unfortunately, this
means that Mutants will have most of their slots taken up by armor,
leaving just a single weaponry slot.  Mutants are highly useful against
regular enemies, but against major bosses until near the end of the
game, they are purely Healers since several bosses are immune to all
elements.  Once you go through the Nasty Dungeon, you will have tons of
money to buy Flare Books and Mutants will begin doing tons of damage.
-Despite how bad it sounds to only have one weapon, Mutants should
always have lots of armor.  Mutants usually have low HP, so you need
the DEF.  Always wear Armor and Helmets, they give the biggest raises
in Defense.  Gauntlets are optional, but I use them until the
Guardian's World.  I strongly recommend buying a pair of Hermes Boots
from Guardian's World and giving them to your Mutant for the +10 AGI.
Late in the game, unequip all your armor and give the Mutant a Parasuit
that gives massive DEF, AGI and STR bonuses, plus only takes up one
slot.
-Your one weapon should almost always be an AGI weapon.  Female Mutants
gain AGI faster than Males, but Male Mutants do NOT gain any bonus
speed to gaining STR.  AGI is just like STR, except AGI allows you to
attack before the enemies in battle.  Obviously, if you're trying to
cast a Cure spell or kill the enemy before he attacks you, high AGI
will help a lot more than high STR.
-Rely on skills.  They are your main weapons.  Your starting spell,
Flame or Blizzard, is highly useful, even late into the game, since it
is reliant on Mana and hits all enemies.  Also, I recommend not
doubling the Element spells.  For example, a Male Mutant has Blizzard.
Since he has an ice-element attack, why would he need Ice?  Sure Ice
does a little more damage, but if you're looking to hit a normal
enemy's weakness, having Fire will help a lot more.  Generally, I also
like having Thunder in addition to the starting spell for elemental
stuff, because Thunder appears to have more enemies weak against it
than either Fire or Ice.
-Good abilities to have are:
1.) Cure (restores HP, 15 uses)
2.) P-Blast (high damage, hits all enemies, 15 uses)
3.) Flare (most powerful spell in the game, hits all enemies, only 5
uses though)
4.) StonGaze (eliminates groups of regular enemies easily)
5.) O-All (gives immunity to all element attacks)
6.) O-Change (immune to status effects)
7.) O-Weapon (immune to physical damage, which is about half of all
damage)
-Most books are pointless.  The basic books, such as Fire and Ice
aren't that valuable and can easily be acquired as skills from beating
monsters anyway.  Stone would be a nice book to have, however you only
get 15 uses.  There are much better ways to spend 17,000 gold.  The
main exception to this rule is Flare Books.  Once you reach the last
world, your characters will be rolling in money, especially if you go
through the entire Nasty Dungeon and sell the stuff from there that you
don't use.  Flare is the most powerful spell in the game and does
whopping damage to all enemies.  Cure Books are also nice, however you
can usually get Cure on a Mutant without too much trouble.
-The best MAGI for Mutants is obviously Mana since it gives a large
boost to your Mana stat.  If you have two Mutants, give the MAGI to the
Mutant with lower Mana, and give the other Mutant the element MAGI that
matches your most used element type.

Robots: They are the ones who are best at using valuable items that run
out fast such as Tank or Missile, since you can always recharge the
items by staying at an inn.  Robots can be nice against bosses, but you
need to be careful what you use as several Robot weapons, especially
the Fire Gun, lose their power against bosses.
-Aside from items like the ones mentioned above with low uses but high
value, the Robot should focus on AGI weaponry.  As I mentioned in the
Mutant discussion, AGI is generally better than STR.  Getting lots of
AGI weaponry can give the Robot massively high AGI damage.  Giving a
Robot a bunch of Bows and one Rapier can result in over 120 damage
right at the beginning of the game.  Laser Guns give the biggest AGI
increase, tied with the very good damage Samurai Bows.  This applies
later in the game too.
-Always have lots of items equipped.  Even if they are really wimpy
like Bows, the items still give you free HP and a small stat boost.
-Against bosses, the specialty items like Tank generally lose
usefulness.  This makes the AGI weaponry you should be carrying even
more important since it gives a very reliable source of damage.
-With Robots, you can often survive quite well just by equipping them
with items found in dungeons.  But you must make sure to actually give
the items to the Robot and not others, or else your Robot will end up
very weak.

Monsters: The wild card of the game.  They can be either very helpful
against bosses, or 100% worthless.
-Don't always eat meat when it's dropped.  If you have a good monster
that you like, then keep it.  There is an excellent FAQ by Amuseum
describing how monsters transform when eating meat.  Just print off the
main chart and look at it before deciding to eat meat.  If you'll end
up with a bad monster, then don't bother.
-Some monster types are inferior and some are excellent, just like
you'd expect.  The best monster types, in no particular order, are:
1.) Sprite class.  Includes Sprite, Fairy, Nymph, Sylph and Titania.
These monsters have good HP and DEF, plus amazing Mana and AGI.  Also,
even the weakest kind has Cure, Thunder and Sleep, all good abilities.
Even if the current boss resists Thunder and Sleep, these are still
great to have to restore HP.
2.) Medusa class. Includes Medusa, Lamia, Naga, Scylla and Lilith.
Good all-around stats, plus StonGaze for quick removal of regular
enemies.  Tends to be less useful against bosses, but nice against
regular enemies, so worth mentioning.
3.) Ghost class.  Includes O-Bake, Phantom, Wraith, Specter, and Ghost.
Has Touch and possibly Paralyze or Ice depending on the kind.  Touch
absorbs HP and does damage and is highly useful if the boss doesn't
resist it.  Nice overall stats.  Not much to really say.
4.) Dragon class.  Includes Baby-D, Young-D, Dragon, Great-D and Sei-
Ryu.  Flame for a nice hit all attack and some physical attacks such as
Nail to cover in case the boss resists Fire.  Overall one of the best
boss classes.
Those are the ones I consider generally the best, but if you have other
recommendations (and in-game information to back it up), send them in.
Note that for specific bosses, certain monsters might be less useful or
more useful depending on the boss.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

General tips if you are having trouble beating a boss:
1.) Level up.  This is the single biggest thing you can do to improve
your party.
2.) Buy new weaponry or armor.  I recommend armor over weapons most of
the time, because weapons run out, but armor is forever.  However, if
you have lots of money or already have good armor, weapons can be
highly useful.  Just make sure not to run out of uses before fighting
the boss.  If I have a Human in my group, I'll buy the best weapon I
can, then make it purely for boss fighting.  You can always rely on
cheap Rapiers and Long Swords to deal with regular wimps, but bosses
often demand the very best.
3.) Check your Mutant's abilities.  Several bosses resist certain
elements.  While there isn't much to change the abilities (short of
buying a Book for an element that isn't resisted), if you know for sure
that the monster resists all your abilities, then why not just give the
Mutant an X-Cure potion or a Cure Book to heal during the battle?  Heal
Rods work even better, but chances are against having enough money to
buy them early in the game.  If you have the Aegis MAGI, you can give
it to your fastest Mutant and use it for some free party element
defense.
4.) Make sure the monsters are upgraded.  While that Sprite may have
been highly useful against Ashura, it's horribly outdated by the time
you fight Venus.  If you are at the current level, try another monster.
A Sprite type is useful for Cure, but if your Mutant has Cure and the
monster resists elemental attacks, both your Mutant and Sprite will be
just Curing with nothing else to do.  You probably don't really need
that much healing.  So try to switch the Sprite to a physical class to
do some solid damage.
5.) If you have Aegis or a high level shield that defends the whole
party, use it.  Regardless of how little damage you do per turn, if you
aren't taking any damage, then you will win eventually.
6.) Be persistent.  Often, you can hit the enemy down to low HP before
unluckily getting hit with a powerful attack that wipes out your party.
Try again and you could win easily without trouble.
7.) If all else fails, take a break.  Leave the game for an hour or so
and go do something else, such as reading or watching TV.  While you
should be persistent, staying and failing repeatedly will only cause
you to get angry at the game.  Once you reach that breaking point, turn
off the GameBoy and forget about FFL2 for a few minutes.  Then once you
go back to it, you'll be back and ready to try again or level up some
more.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

--III. Specific Bosses--

Now that you've read or skipped my general section on characters,
here's the section on specific bosses.  The HP and resistances are
purely based on what I tried out.  If you have any better information,
send it!  The HP especially is rather far off, since it was based on
highly unscientific methods (me sitting there with a Calculator till
the boss dies) and could easily be a hundred or so off.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

BabyWyrm:
HP==Less than 100.  Resistances: None that I know of.
+++The easiest boss battle in the game.  One shot of Dissolve or Fire
by Mr.S will kill this boss.  Even if Mr.S has somehow used up all his
skills, you can still shred this boss with one Colt shot from a Robot,
a couple physical attacks or two uses of Flame/Blizzard.  This is a
regular enemy who comes in large groups in the very next world.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

Rhino:
HP==Roughly 100-150.  Resistances: None that I know of.
+++This is a cakewalk, especially with Ki.  One casting of her Thunder
finishes Rhino easily.  If you have a Robot with a SMG (highly useful),
one shot will also kill Rhino. Also, look at those Resistances.  He was
hit with everything I tried, including status effects.  The reason is
because this is actually not a true boss, just a regular enemy from
slightly later in the game.  Still deserves his own section, even if
Rhino is a major wimp.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

Woodman:
HP==Less than 157.  Resistances: Again, none (enjoy it while you can)
+++Another simple battle.  Again, one SMG firing will kill the Woodman.
Also a couple spells from a Mutant or 3 physical attacks will easily
finish this boss.  I believe all status effects work here also.  I'm
sure that Sleep and Paralysis work on this boss, plus probably
everything else.  This is yet another regular enemy, which explains the
weakness.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

Ashura:
HP==760-885 (probably 800).  Resistances:  Currently known: Fire, Ice,
Thunder, Sleep, Paralysis.  I'd guess he resists all elements and
status effects, but I haven't tested thoroughly enough yet.
+++Your first true boss.  Ashura can do lots of damage to your whole
party with Flame (about 70-90 to all party members).  If you have a
Robot, this is the time to use those AGI weapons you've hopefully been
stocking up in his inventory.  Humans should also use physical weapons,
which works perfectly since you picked up the best current STR and AGI
weapons on your way up his tower.  Mutants will be restricted to mainly
casting Cure or using Cure potions unless you've done some major
physical damage raising.  You can try Psi Knives for damage if you've
got any, but I didn't have any so I couldn't try them to say how useful
they are.  The most useful monsters in this battle are Raven, MapleMan,
and RedBone for physical damage or Sprite for Cure.  IMO, MapleMan is
the best overall since he does the most physical damage with Bash.
Finally, we come to Mask, your ace in the hole.  If your party is
lacking in the damage department (highly possible), Mask can bail you
out.  Mask with even a weak Long Sword or Rapier can do 100+ damage and
carrying a Saber or Battle Sword, he can do over 300 damage at times.
Usually, I'll give him a Long Sword so I can use or sell the
Saber/BattleSword myself since you can not get the item back if you
give it to Mask.  If you find yourself having trouble, just give Mask
your best weapon, then set your entire party to casting Cure or using
Cure Potions.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

Phagocyt:
HP--Roughly 200 or so each.  Resistances: None known, except probably
Poison.  Weak against Ice.
+++These are in Ki's Body and come in groups of anywhere from 2-8 (its
random, so if you end up with a huge group and can't handle it, reload
and try again).  These are actually just the next level of the Plasma
monsters you fought earlier.  They seem hard, but it's just a
deception.  One SMG blast will kill off the entire group.  Also, look
at that weakness to Ice.  One decent Mutant (15+ Mana) with Blizzard or
Ice can kill off all of them in one hit.  If you don't have any group
attacks, just fight them one by one, but in this case you need to be
much more careful with casting Cure and using X-Cure potions more
often.  I recommend reloading until you get less than 5 monsters if you
have to fight physically without anything to hit the whole group,
otherwise you'll take lots of damage and it will take a long time.  The
best monster is Sprite due to Thunder hitting all the enemies and the
high Mana (can definitely destroy the group in two hits of Thunder,
possibly even just one).  A Big Eye may also be useful if the monsters
are vulnerable to Paralysis.  If you can get a Medusa, one StonGaze
will kill the whole group.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

To be continued by tonight, once I get my game up to the Guardian's
World since I forget who the bosses there.
